---
layout: post
title: "MODULATION OF TRPM7 AND NMDAR CHANNEL ACTIVITIES THROUGH
PROTEIN-PROTEIN INTERACTIONS"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'neuro'
subtitle: "J. Wu, M. Tymianski"
tags: brain oral
---
<sup>1,2</sup>J. Wu, <sup>1,2,3</sup>M. Tymianski

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Fundamental Neurobiology, Toronto Western Hospital,
ON, Canada
<sup>2</sup>Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada
<sup>3</sup>Department of Surgery (Neurosurgery), University of Toronto, ON,
Canada_

Ischemic stroke is one of the leading causes of neurological disability
and mortality worldwide, and places a huge burden on the health care
system. However, the pathological mechanism of stroke remains to be
elucidated, and few effective therapies have been identified.

Our lab has reported two key signaling pathways that lead to neuronal
death after ischemic stroke. The first is the coupling of
N-methyl-D-aspartate type ionotropic glutamate receptors (NMDARs) to the
nitric oxide synthase (NOS) by the intermediary postsynaptic density
protein PSD95. The second is mediated by the activation of TRPM7
channels (TRPM7) and the subsequent calcium influx that leads to cell
death in anoxia.

Inhibiting TRPM7 channel function also inhibits excitotoxicity through
NMDARs. Therefore, we investigated the potential for a direct or
indirect interaction between TRPM7 and NMDARs. First, using brain
membrane fractionation, we probed the subcellular distribution of the
two proteins in neurons. Then we performed co-immunoprecipitation
(Co-IPs) using rat brain tissue and HEK293 cells co-expressing TRPM7 and
NMDAR to evaluate their direct interactions. Next we performed
immunostaining to confirm the co-localization of the two proteins in the
same neurons. Lastly, we used the Bimolecular Fluorescence
Complementation (BiFC) using HEK293 cells to visualize the direct
TRPM7-NMDAR interaction. Our data indicate that TRPM7 and NMDARs, the
two key modulators of ischemic cell death, co-associate in the same
protein complex in neurons and are capable of a direct interaction. The
findings of the project may provide an understanding of the cross talk
and interdependence between these important ischemic cell death
pathways.
