---
layout: post
title: "E3 - CMPF INCREASES INTRACELLULAR CALCIUM THROUGH ORGANIC ANION
TRANSPORTERS"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'endo'
tags: endo poster-session-2
subtitle: "J.H. Kim, Y. Liu, D.D. Belsham, M.B. Wheeler"
---
__<sup>1</sup>J.H. Kim__, <sup>1</sup>Y. Liu, <sup>1</sup>D.D. Belsham, <sup>1</sup>M.B. Wheeler

_Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada_

3-carboxy-4-methyl-5-propyl-2-furanpropanoic acid (CMPF) is
significantly elevated in the serum of those with prediabetes and type 2
diabetes (T2D), accelerating the disease progression. Our lab previously
showed that elevating plasma CMPF concentrations in mice to T2D levels
results in β-cell dysfunction, attributed to preferential fatty acid
oxidation over glucose metabolism in the β cells. Interestingly, this
preferential fatty acid utilization was also observed in _in vivo_ fat;
mice intraperitoneally administered with CMPF for 7 days prior to 5-week
high-fat diet feeding (CMPF-HFD vs. CON-HFD) 1) gained less weight, 2)
had less subcutaneous adipose surface area, and 3) had smaller
subcutaneous adipocyte size. To investigate whether CMPF acts directly
on fat, we optimized protocols for _in vitro_ differentiation of mouse
adipocyte-like cells, 3T3-L1, and _ex vivo_ primary adipose tissue
explant (PAE) culture. Using 3T3-L1 and PAE, we found that CMPF does not
enter and accumulate in adipocytes. Considering the possibility of CMPF
acting in adipocytes through receptor-mediated signaling, we
overexpressed free-fatty acid receptor 1 and 4—GPR40 and GPR120,
respectively—in human kidney cells, HEK293 but acute CMPF treatment
(ACT) did not activate both receptors. However, we observed a
significant increase in intracellular calcium (IC) with ACT in
non-transfected HEK293 and MIN6-K8 cells, where CMPF entry through
organic anion transporters (OATs) had previously been described. Upon
using pharmacological inhibition of OATs, probenecid and
benzylpenecilin, the IC was significantly reduced in both cell lines.
While scrutinizing the molecular mechanism of CMPF, we also confirmed
that 24-hour CMPF treatment in adipocytes did not change 1) the level of
gene expression of the molecular markers that regulate β oxidation,
lipolysis, and browning, 2) triglyceride content, and 3) the parameters
of mitochondrial function, indicating that CMPF may not act on
adipocytes directly to alter fat mass. These novel studies together
demonstrate that CMPF may need to enter the cells to exert its effects
and is capable of inducing an increase in IC when transported into the
cells through OATs.
