---
layout: post
title: "FETAL GLUCOCORTICOID EXPOSURE MODIFIES THE BLOOD-BRAIN BARRIER AFTER
BIRTH"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'repro'
subtitle: "M.E. Eng, A. Kostaki, S.G. Matthews"
---
<sup>1</sup>__M.E. Eng__, <sup>1</sup>A. Kostaki, <sup>1,2,3</sup>S. G. Matthews.

_Departments of Physiology<sup>1</sup>, Ob-Gyn<sup>2</sup>, and Medicine<sup>3</sup>, University of
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada_

The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is formed by specialized endothelial cells
connected by tight-junctions (TJ) to form a non-fenestrated vessel. The
TJs together with luminal membrane transporters P-glycoprotein (P-gp;
encoded by _Abcb1_) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP; encoded
by _Abcg2_), separate the brain from the systemic circulation. Synthetic
glucocorticoids (sGC) are administered to women at risk of preterm
birth, to help drive fetal lung maturation. Glucocorticoid exposure _in
utero_ modulates acute increases in expression and function of drug
transporters and several TJ proteins. Changes in BBB function that
persist after sGC exposure, could have ramifications for CNS drug
disposition in neonates. Currently, no studies have investigated whether
fetal exposure to sGC leads to post-natal alterations in BBB integrity
and function. The objective of this study was to determine the
effect of antenatal sGC treatment on tight junction and drug transporter
expression in microvessels of the juvenile BBB. Guinea pigs were chosen
for this study as they exhibit a similar pattern of neurodevelopment to
humans, as well as similar developmental expression patterns for P-gp at
the BBB. Guinea pigs were bred and treated with three courses of either
vehicle or betamethasone (1 mg/kg) at gestation day (GD) 40, 41, GD 50,
51 and GD 60, 61. Brain microvessels were collected from offspring at
postnatal day (PND) 14. _Abcb1_, _Abcg2, Cldn-5, Ocln,_ and _Zo-1_ mRNA
in isolated brain microvessels were analyzed by qRT-PCR. At PND14, sGC
treatment significantly increased _Cldn5_ expression (p&lt;0.05) with
non-significant increases in _Ocln_ or _Zo-1_. sGC treatment did not
affect expression of drug transporters _Abcb1,_ or _Abcg2_ at PND14_._
To conclude, expression of _Cldn-5_, the main TJ protein, was increased
up to 24 days after sGC exposure. This could lead to changes in BBB
permeability. As such, the sGC-induced changes observed could have
profound implications on neonatal drug exposure, particularly in
newborns who exposed to therapeutic drugs. _Supported by CIHR._
