---
layout: post
title: "MATCHING ELECTROPHYSIOLOGY TO MORPHOLOGY IN SOMATOSTATIN-POSITIVE
ORIENS-LACUNOSUM/MOLECULARE (O-LM) HIPPOCAMPAL INTERNEURONS"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'neuro'
subtitle: "V. Sekulic, F. Yi, T. Garrett, J. J. Lawrence, F. K. Skinner"
---

**<sup>1,2</sup>V. Sekulic**, <sup>3</sup>F. Yi, <sup>4</sup>T. Garrett, <sup>5,6</sup>J. J. Lawrence,
<sup>1,7,2</sup>F. K. Skinner

_<sup>1</sup>Krembil Research Institute, University Health Network, ON, Canada
<sup>2</sup>Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada
<sup>3</sup>Department of Biomedical and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of
Montana, Missoula, Montana, USA
<sup>4</sup>Neuroscience Graduate Program, Oregon Health and Science University,
Portland, Oregon, USA
<sup>5</sup>Department of Pharmacology and Neuroscience, Texas Tech University
Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, Texas, USA
<sup>6</sup>Center of Excellence for Translational Neuroscience and
Therapeutics, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock,
Texas, USA
<sup>7</sup>Department of Medicine (Neurology), University of Toronto, ON,
Canada_

Inhibitory interneurons of the hippocampus are critical controllers of
network rhythms that are linked to learning and memory function. In
particular, the oriens-lacunosum/moleculare (O-LM) inhibitory
interneuron directly regulates pyramidal cell activity in the
hippocampal CA1 region. Thus, it is essential to understand how the
biophysical properties of O-LM cells allow them to contribute to
hippocampal function. Computational modelling is needed to synthesize
disparate experimental data and generate testable hypotheses of neuronal
function. Our previously developed O-LM cell models demonstrated that
biophysical properties of O-LM cells affect output in specific ways.
However, the models were developed using morphological and
electrophysiological data obtained from different O-LM cells, resulting
in nonuniqueness of the fitted model parameters. We hypothesize that
newly acquired experimental data of O-LM cells, with matched
electrophysiological and morphological data, will result in consistent
fits of model parameters, especially passive electrotonic properties. We
performed a set of whole-cell recordings from O-LM cells in
SOM-CRE/Rosa26YFP mice, followed by biocytin fills to match their
electrotonic and morphological properties. We then developed 3D
reconstructions of the morphologies and fitted the passive properties of
the resulting models using electrophysiological data from the same
cells. Surprisingly, we found that the specific membrane capacitance
(*C*~m~) was substantially lower than reported previously in hippocampal
cells. Furthermore, uniformly distributed specific membrane resistivity
(*R*~m~) values generated more optimal fits to the data relative to
non-uniform distributions. Crucially, the new models exhibited
consistent values in their electrotonic properties across different
experimental cells. These results offer insights into the electrotonic
structure of O-LM cells that affect synaptic integration and spiking
output. These models will serve as a next generation of tightly
constrained biophysical multi-compartment models of O-LM cells.
