---
layout: post
title: "THE ROLE OF MICROGLIA IN HYPOTHALAMIC NEUROINFLAMMATION"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'endo'
tags: endo poster
subtitle: "S. Park, M.H. Kim, J.A. Chalmers, D.D. Belsham"
---
<sup>1</sup>**S. Park**, <sup>1</sup>M.H. Kim, <sup>1</sup>J.A. Chalmers, <sup>1</sup>D.D. Belsham.

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada_

High fat diet that contains palmitate, a saturated fatty acid commonly
found in Western diets, has been shown to rapidly elicit hypothalamic
cellular neuroinflammation, disrupting energy homeostasis, and
potentially aggravating obesity. The activation of microglia – immune
cells that reside in the central nervous system – has been implicated as
a mediator of high fat diet-induced hypothalamic inflammation. In this
study, we investigated the changes in the inflammatory signature of
immortalized mouse microglia (BV2 and IMG cells) in response to
palmitate and how this may affect hypothalamic cells *in vitro*. We
hypothesize that microglia play a neuroprotective role against
palmitate-induced cellular neuroinflammation. To investigate this,
microglia were treated with palmitate for 4 or 24 hours, and mRNA
expression of inflammatory markers was assessed with an RT2 Profiler PCR
Array and further validated by quantitative RT-PCR. The effect of
microglia on hypothalamic cells was examined by co-culturing microglia,
pre-treated with palmitate for 4 or 24 hours, with an immortalized mouse
hypothalamic cell line (mHypoE-46) for 4 or 6 hours. Changes in
inflammatory and ER stress markers were examined in mHypoE-46 cells by
qRT-PCR. We found that, in microglial cells, palmitate exposure alters
the expression of specific inflammatory and ER stress markers, including
Bax/Bcl2, CHOP, CCL2, IL-13, IL-17, and TNFα. Furthermore, a significant
decrease in TNFα mRNA levels is observed in hypothalamic mHypoE-46
neurons co-cultured with palmitate-exposed microglia. Our results
suggest microglia treated with palmitate exhibit a unique
neuroinflammatory phenotype, and co-culture with hypothalamic cells
appears to suppress TNFα expression, which suggests that microglial
cells may play an anti-inflammatory role. These studies indicate
microglia play a role in modulating cellular inflammation and improving
our understanding of the mechanisms may be useful in developing
anti-inflammatory therapeutics for obesity and other related diseases,
including diabetes and reproductive disorders.
