---
layout: post
title: E9 - "EFFECTS OF THE SATURATED FATTY ACID PALMITATE ON CELLULAR NEUROINFLAMMATION AND POMC EXPRESSION IN THE MHYPOA-POMC/GFP NEURONAL CELL MODELS"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
tags: endo poster-session-2
platform: 'endo'
subtitle: "E.K. Tse, D.D. Belsham"
---
**<sup>1</sup>E.K. Tse,** <sup>1,2,3</sup>D.D. Belsham

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, <sup>2</sup>Medicine, and <sup>3</sup>Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, ON, Canada_

Hypothalamic pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons act to decrease feeding
in response to circulating nutrients and hormones, however, it is
unknown how these neurons respond to excess nutrients, specifically free
fatty acids (FFA) such as palmitate, as detected in high fat diet.
Obesity causes hypothalamic neuroinflammation, but it is unknown if this
occurs in POMC neurons, and whether it leads to insulin resistance and
altered Pomc expression. This study examines the effects of palmitate in
the mHypoA-POMC/GFP-1-2 neuronal cell lines where it is hypothesized
that palmitate will promote neuroinflammation and cellular stress,
dysregulation of insulin signaling, and changes in Pomc expression,
ultimately altering energy homeostasis. mHypoA-POMC/GFP-1-2 neurons were
treated with palmitate and relative levels of Pomc mRNA and markers of
cellular neuroinflammation and ER stress were measured by qRT-PCR, as
well, key proteins associated with the development of insulin resistance
were assessed by western blot. Palmitate significantly increases Pomc
mRNA, as well as mRNA levels of Chop and Il-6. Pre-treatment with the
TLR4 inhibitor demonstrated significant attenuation of the
palmitate-mediated induction of Il-6 mRNA, but no change in Pomc mRNA.
This suggests that palmitate acts through TLR4 in POMC neurons to induce
an inflammatory response, but through a separate mechanism to affect
Pomc expression, potentially through the cellular metabolism to
ceramide, as C16-ceramide significantly increases Pomc mRNA. Finally,
palmitate may not induce insulin resistance in POMC neurons as p-Akt
levels are unchanged, while relative p-JNK is significantly increased.
Further studies to examine the mechanism of palmitate action in POMC
neurons will include using pharmacological inhibitors of ceramide
synthesis and of the MAP kinases, as well as co-treatment with
unsaturated FAs to assess Pomc expression. Together, these data further
our understanding of how FFAs act directly on POMC neurons and
potentially alter hypothalamic-mediated energy homeostasis leading to
the development of metabolic disorders.
