---
layout: post
title: "THE EFFECT OF THE ENDOCRINE DISRUPTING CHEMICAL BISPHENOL A ON
PRO-OPIOMELANOCORTIN, CIRCADIAN RHYTHM AND NEUROINFLAMMATORY MARKER GENE
EXPRESSION IN HYPOTHALAMIC CELL MODELS"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'neuro'
subtitle: "A. Salehi, D.D. Belsham"
tags: brain poster
---
**<sup>1</sup>A. Salehi**, <sup>1,2</sup>D.D. Belsham

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology; <sup>2</sup>Department of Obstetrics and
Gynaecology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada_

Obesity is a global health crisis that has increased by 200% from 1985
to 2011. Bisphenol A (BPA) is an endocrine-disrupting chemical that has
been linked to obesity. However, the effect of BPA on the
pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons of the hypothalamus has yet to be
explored. POMC neurons produce a precursor polypeptide that is cleaved
into the anorexigenic peptide αMSH. Altering POMC expression could
therefore disrupt energy homeostasis, leading to weight gain. We
hypothesized that BPA induces a neuroinflammatory response to alter the
gene expression of _POMC_, thereby impairing feeding regulation. We also
hypothesized that BPA may alter the expression of circadian clock genes.
This study utilized two hypothalamic neuronal models: adult-derived
mHypoA-POMC/GFP-2 and embryonic mHypoE-43/5 cell-lines. Both cell-lines
were chosen for their expression of inflammatory markers, circadian
genes and _POMC_ transcripts. We examined the effect of 100 μM BPA on
the transcription of _POMC,_ pro-inflammatory genes _IL6, NFkB, IkBα_,
and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress marker, _CHOP,_ by real-time
quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). Analysis of circadian clock genes _Bmal1_,
_Per2_ and _Rev-Erbα_ was also undertaken. In the mHypoA-POMC/GFP-2
cell-line, BPA significantly upregulated _POMC_, _IL6_, _IkBα_ and
_CHOP_ mRNA levels. Furthermore, BPA significantly altered the mRNA
levels of _Bmal1_ and _Per2_ at specific time points, indicating a
disrupted circadian clock. Similar to the adult-derived POMC line, BPA
significantly altered the mRNA levels of _POMC_, _IL6, IkBα_, _NFkB_ and
_CHOP_, _Bmal1_, _Rev- Erbα_ and _Per2_ in the mHypoE-43/5 cell-line.
Given the altered expression of feeding-related peptides, BPA could have
an inflammation-mediated mechanism of action that is being explored.
Additionally, the disruption of circadian genes by BPA could further
alter cellular function necessary for energy homeostasis. In conclusion,
our study is the first to explore the direct effects of BPA on POMC
neuronal cell models, demonstrating altered expression of genes
associated with obesity.
