---
layout: post
title: "A two-pore potassium channel regulates locomotory behaviour in
C.elegans"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'neuro'
subtitle: "J. Meng, W. Hung, M. Zhen"
tags: brain poster
---
**<sup>1.2</sup>J. Meng**, <sup>2</sup>W. Hung, <sup>1.2.3</sup>M. Zhen

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada <sup>2</sup>Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum research institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, ON,
Canada
<sup>3</sup>Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Toronto, ON, Canada_

With only 302 neurons in the adult nervous system, C. elegans is a
compact animal model to study the circuit mechanisms for behaviors, such
as locomotion. Though patterns of locomotion diverge across species, the
molecular and cellular mechanisms that underlie the circuit property and
operation to achieve motor behaviors may share conserved features. We
have identified a recessive mutation in a two-pore potassium channel
(K2P), TWK-40, that leads to exaggerated body bends and increased
reversals during locomotion. K2P channels play diverse roles in membrane
physiology, one being a negative regulator of the resting membrane
potential (RMP). By depletion of TWK-40 from specific groups of neurons,
I have discovered a critical and novel role of a pair of premotor
interneurons, called AVA, in controlling both the reversal frequency and
the bending curvature. Interestingly, optogenetic activation of AVA
potentiates reversals, without increasing bending curvature. Hence, the
effect of increasing AVA’s RMP is only partially mimicked by optogenetic
activation of the neuron. I propose further studies to examine the role
and mechanisms through which the TWK-40 K2P channel and AVA neurons in
the C. elegans regulate motor behaviors.
