---
layout: post
title: "REEP5 IS ESSENTIAL FOR FORMATION, MAINTENANCE, AND FUNCTION OF THE
ENDOPLASMIC RETICULUM IN CARDIAC MUSCLE"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'cardio'
subtitle: "Shin-Haw Lee, Sina Hadipour-Lakmehsari, Natalie Gibb1, Allen C.T. Teng, Tetsuaki Miyake, Cynthia Abbasi, Jake Cosme, Parveen Sharma, Thomas Kislinger, Ian C. Scott, Anthony O. Gramolini"
---
**Shin-Haw Lee<sup>1,2</sup>**, Sina Hadipour-Lakmehsari<sup>1,2</sup>, Natalie
Gibb<sup>1,3</sup>, Allen C.T. Teng<sup>1,2</sup>, Tetsuaki Miyake<sup>2,5</sup>, Cynthia Abbasi<sup>2</sup>, Jake Cosme<sup>1,2</sup>, Parveen Sharma<sup>2,6</sup>, Thomas Kislinger<sup>4</sup>, Ian C. Scott<sup>1,3</sup>, Anthony O. Gramolini <sup>1,2</sup> 

_<sup>1</sup>Ted Rogers Centre for Heart Research, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5G
1M1  
<sup>2</sup>Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5S 1M8  
<sup>3</sup>Developmental and Stem Cell Biology, The Hospital for Sick Children,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5G1X8,  
<sup>4</sup>Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5G1L7_

The Endoplasmic Reticulum (ER) provides many critical functions in
eukaryotic cells, however, its structural organization remains largely
unknown. Here, we report a cardiac enriched ER membrane protein, Reep5,
is centrally involved in regulating cardiac ER morphology and cell
stress induced responses. Immunofluorescence analyses showed Reep5
localization to both peripheral ER and the junctional sarcoplasmic
reticulum (j-SR) in striated muscles and differentiated myocytes.
Immunocytochemistry analyses showed Reep5 was critical for ER
organization in C~2~C~12~ myoblasts, myotubes, and cultured mouse
neonatal cardiomyocytes (CMNCs) as Reep5 silencing and transiently
overexpressing a truncated mutant of Reep5 (114-189) were associated
with increased ER luminal swelling and vacuolization. We have shown
Reep5 forms membrane complexes with known ER shaping proteins, including
reticulon4, atlastin3, and ckap4 to stabilize membrane structure.
Furthermore, Reep5 depletion led to an increase in reactive oxygen
species (ROS) and ER-dependent apoptosis in CMNCs. In addition, Reep5
was found to be upregulated in pressure overload-induced failing hearts,
which we believe to be a critical compensatory mechanism. *In vivo*
morpholino-mediated Reep5 reduction in zebrafish embryo was associated
with reduced heart rates and defective cardiac looping. Taken together,
these results reveal the indispensable role of Reep5 in ER organization,
function, and embryonic cardiac development. 
