---
layout: post
title: "CHARATERIZNG AND GENERATING CLINICALLY GRADE iPSCs FROM CT-MSCs USING
EPISOMAL 5 REPROGRAMMING"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'repro'
tags: repro poster
subtitle: "A. MOHAMED; T. CHOW, J. WHITELEY, T. BONGOLON; I. ROGERS"
---
__<sup>1-2</sup>A. MOHAMED;__ <sup>1-2</sup>T. CHOW, <sup>2</sup> J. WHITELEY, <sup>1-2</sup> T. BONGOLON;
<sup>1,2,3</sup> I. ROGERS

_<sup>1</sup> Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada; <sup>2</sup>
Mount Sinai Hospital, LTRI, Toronto, ON, Canada.; <sup>3</sup> Department of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada _

In 2006 Dr. Shinya Yamanaka was able to show the expressions of four
transcription factors (c-Myc, Oct-3/4, Klf, SOX2) could reprogram
somatic cells into an embryonic stem cell-like state, later classified
as induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). The generation of iPSCs have
been hampered by the integration of viral vectors and transgenes, posing
the risk of insertional mutagenesis due to the spontaneous reactivation
of viral genes. There is also a possible reactivation of the known
oncogene c-Myc which can result in tumorigenesis. This is a major
roadblock for clinical applications of iPSCs as such there is a need to
optimize the reprogramming protocols to generate iPSCs under
integration-free and serum-free conditions. Umbilical cord tissue
mesenchymal stromal cells (CT-MSCs) are a desirable starting cell source
as they can be stored for several years without the loss of viability
and their collection is non-invasive. Our lab has characterized CT-MSCs
obtained from 5 patient cord samples through flow cytometry and showed
their successful differentiation into the osteocyte and adipocyte cell
linages. Furthermore, we have shown iPSCs can be generated from CT-MSCs
through the use of episomal 5 reprogramming, a non-integrating plasmid
that eliminates the use of c-Myc and employs the reprogramming factors
OCT4, SOX2, KLF4, LMYC and LIN28A combined with a P53 knock-down
(shP53). We will further characterize generated iPSCs through i)
karyotyping and calculating the frequency of colonies produced ii) stain
for pluripotency markers (Oct-3/4, SOX2, Nanog) using immunofluorescence
and iii) test for differentiation into the 3 germ layers (ectoderm,
endoderm and mesoderm) through the formation of embryoid bodies. This
research aims to create clinically grade iPSC to be used as a standard
therapy for disease treatment in regenerative medicine to highlight how
established cord tissue banks could serve as the scientific model for
how iPSCs lines could be banked and distributed.
