---
layout: post
title: "TESTING FOR SYNERGY BETWEEN NITRIC OXIDE PATHWAY AGONISTS AND CFTR
MODULATORS IN CF PATIENT SPECIFIC AIRWAY TISSUES"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'cardio'
subtitle: "Y.Wu, L. Wellhauser, S. Ahmadi, J. Jiang, H. Ouyang, W. Duan, T. Moraes, C.E. Bear"
---
**<sup>1,2</sup>Y.Wu**, <sup>2</sup>L. Wellhauser, <sup>1,2</sup>S. Ahmadi, <sup>2</sup>J. Jiang, <sup>3</sup>H.
Ouyang, <sup>3</sup>W. Duan, <sup>3,4</sup>T. Moraes, <sup>1,2,5</sup>C.E. Bear

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada;
<sup>2</sup>Department of Molecular Medicine, Hospital for Sick Children, ON,
Canada; <sup>3</sup>Department of Translational Medicine, Hospital for Sick
Children, ON, Canada; <sup>4</sup>Department of Laboratory Medicine and
Pathobiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada; <sup>5</sup>Department of
Biochemistry, University of Toronto, ON, Canada_

Despite identifying the cause of Cystic Fibrosis (CF) as mutations in
the CFTR gene, the high variability of phenotypes observed in even the
most common genotype of CF, ΔF508-CFTR, pre- and post-CF drug treatment
is still an on-going issue. To investigate this variability, recent
Genome-Wide Association studies may have identified several secondary
(non-CFTR) genes as modifiers of CF disease severity. The most
significant ‘modifier’ gene identified, SLC6A14, codes for a highly
concentrative amino acid transporter that is essential for transporting
L-Arginine into airway epithelial cells. Arginine is the substrate
required for generating Nitric Oxide (NO) via host NO synthase (NOS)
activity. Clinical studies have shown that NO and NOS concentrations are
significantly reduced in CF patients, yet maintaining a certain [NO]
is required not only for clearing bacterial biofilm infections, but also
activating CFTR function and increasing cilia motility. Previous
clinical trials using arginine supplementation or NO inhalation therapy
alone show non-significant improvements of CF patient lung function.
Therefore, following initial testing on respiratory cell lines, we have
shown supplementing the current CF drug regime, ORKAMBI<sup>TM</sup>, with
Arginine-Nitric Oxide pathway agonists significantly improved the
efficacy of ΔF508-CFTR targeted therapies. For each CF patient’s
respiratory cells, we evaluated the airway’s mucociliary clearance
(MCC), ciliary beat frequency (CBF), CFTR membrane potential, and NO
production _in vitro_. We believe by optimizing a novel method for
evaluating each patient’s airway cells with a lung performance score, we
would be able to specifically define each patient’s response to
supplemented ORKAMBI<sup>TM</sup> treatment. Preliminary studies done in our lab
have shown that addition of SNP (a NO donor), and 8-Br-cGMP (a NO
agonist) increases MCC in primary CF bronchial tissue. Furthermore, it
increases membrane potential several folds providing a translational
aspect for future NO pathway agonists to synergistically improve patient
response to current CF drug regimes.
