---
layout: post
title: "MODULATING CYSTIC FIBROSIS AIRWAY DISEASE PHENOTYPE"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'cardio'
tags: cardio poster
subtitle: "S Xia, S Ahmadi, M Di Paola, NL Jones, CE Bear"
---

**S Xia<sup>1,2</sup>,** S Ahmadi<sup>1,2</sup>, M Di Paola<sup>2</sup>, NL Jones<sup>1,3,4</sup>, CE Bear<sup>1,2,5</sup>

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada;
<sup>2</sup>Programme in Molecular Medicine, Hospital for Sick Children, ON,
Canada; <sup>3</sup>Programme in Cell Biology, Hospital for Sick Children, ON,
Canada; <sup>4</sup>Institute of Medical Sciences, University of Toronto, ON,
Canada; <sup>5</sup>Department of Biochemistry, University of Toronto, ON,
Canada_

Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Conductance Regulator (CFTR) is an
apically expressed anion channel on epithelial surfaces. CFTR is
responsible for transport of chloride and bicarbonate ions to maintain
tissue surface hydration and pH. Loss of CFTR function can lead to wide
ranging defects in ion and fluid movement, which can cause a build-up of
dehydrated mucus leading to increased bacterial infections. The CF
epithelium has also been characterized to have impairment in
differentiation and tissue regeneration. Disruption in barrier formation
in the airway and intestinal tissue may expose the submucosa of the
patient to a variety of environmental pathogens, increasing their
susceptibility to bacterial infection. Tight junction complexes function
to prevent free paracellular movement of solutes across the epithelium.
CF causing mutations often lead to dysregulation of the tight junction
network and it has been previously shown interactions between junctional
complex proteins and CFTR via the C-terminal PDZ motif. Furthermore, it
has been demonstrated activation of AMP Kinase (AMPK) fortifies
epithelial tight junction integrity. Studies done using Human Bronchial
Epithelial cells in our lab have shown disruptive tight junction
arrangement with genetic knockout of _CFTR_. This implicates the role of
CFTR in directing epithelial cell polarization and differentiation. We
hypothesize the dysfunctional regulation of tight junction formation in
CF may be due to the lack of direct interactions between proteins
involved in the formation of junctional complexes and to lack of
CFTR-mediated anion secretion at the apical plasma membrane. Our primary
goal is to use 2D and 3D in vitro models to determine the role of CFTR
C-terminal PDZ motif and the effects of AMPK activation in tight
junction complex formation. Paralleled studies using 2D cell monolayers
and 3D organoid models expressing different CFTR mutants will give us
more insight into cellular pathways explaining the dysregulation in
junctional complexes between cells.
