---
layout: post
title: "E6 - VALIDATION OF THE CACO-2 BBE CELL LINE AS A MODEL OF THE INTESTINAL
EPITHELIAL INSULIN-LIKE GROWTH FACTOR-1 KNOCKOUT PHENOTYPE IN MICE"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
tags: endo poster-session-1
platform: 'endo'
subtitle: "M. Markovic, D. Tsang, P.L. Brubaker"
---

__M. Markovic<sup>1</sup>,__ D. Tsang<sup>1</sup>, P.L. Brubaker<sup>1,2</sup>

_Departments of Physiology<sup>1</sup> and Medicine<sup>2</sup>, University of Toronto,
Ontario, Canada;_

Intestinal microvilli are tiny, finger like projections that aid in the
catabolism and absorption of ingested nutrients. The intestinal
epithelial insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (IE-IGF-1R) has been
shown to play a role in maintaining intestinal microvillus form and
function, under both homeostatic conditions and in response to treatment
with the intestinal growth factor, glucagon-like peptide-2 (GLP-2), in
mice. Hence, inducible IE-IGFI-1R knockout mice display shorter
microvilli (p&lt;0.05), with patches of non-uniform length and
architecture. These mice also fail to respond to the stimulatory effect
of GLP-2 on microvillus form and function. The mechanism underlying the
effect of the IE-IGF-1R on microvillus structure and function has yet to
be determined. To investigate the signaling pathway of the IE-IGF-1R,
the Caco-2 BBE cell model will be utilized. These cells are often used
for microvillus research, but the optimal differentiation period, along
with their ability to recapitulate the IE-IGF-1R KO, is unknown. We have
now confirmed that the Caco-2 BBE cells require at least 16 days to
differentiate, once confluent, as evidenced by upregulation of major
microvillus proteins, such as harmonin, villin, beta-actin, and
myosin-1a (p &lt; 0.05), at the mRNA level on day 16. However, scanning
electron micrographs demonstrated that microvilli are not fully formed
until day 20. Finally, the Caco-2 BBE cells express the IGF-1R, and
respond to IGF-1 treatment (100ng/mL) via activation of AKT on day 20.
These results suggest that at 20 days post-confluence, the Caco-2 BBE
cells are an appropriate model to investigate the mechanism underlying
the IE-IGF-1R KO phenotype observed in mice.
