---
layout: post
title: "SPIKE INITIATION PROPERTIES OF MECHANOSENSORY AFFERENTS"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'neuro'
subtitle: "D.Al-Basha, S.A. Prescott"
tags: brain poster
---
**<sup>1,2</sup>D.Al-Basha**, <sup>1,2</sup>S.A. Prescott

_<sup>1</sup>Neurosciences and Mental Health, The Hospital for Sick Children, ON,
Canada;
<sup>2</sup>Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada_

Mechanosensory afferents are a subset of primary afferent neurons that
encode tactile input. They are classified into rapidly adapting (RA) and
slowly adapting (SA) based on their spike pattern to sustained
mechanical stimulation. Whereas RA afferents fire transiently at the
stimulus onset and offset, SA afferents fire repetitively throughout the
stimulus. The mechanisms underlying these differences are not clear.
Specifically, tactile input is first converted into a local
depolarization, or receptor potential, in the transduction step and the
local depolarization is then converted into action potentials, or
spikes, in the spike initiation step. Here we tested whether spike
initiation differs between RA and SA afferents. To characterize spike
initiation, both the receptor potential and the spike train must be
known. While propagating spikes can be recorded extracellularly or
intracellulary from the axon or cell body, the receptor potential must
be recorded intracellularly from the axon terminal, which is
prohibitively difficult due to the terminal's small caliber. To avoid
recording the natural receptor potential, hard-to-measure
mechanopotentials were replaced with easy-to-control photopotentials
using optogenetics. Using an in vivo technique where extracellular
spikes were recorded from the cell bodies of mechanosensory afferents
while their terminals were stimulated with light, we show that SA
afferents spike repetitively during sustained depolarization whereas RA
afferents spike only at the onset of depolarization. These data reveal
that spike initiation differs between the peripheral terminals of
functionally distinct neuron types.
