---
layout: post
title: "JNK INHIBITION IMPROVEGLUCOSE- INDUCED BETA CELL DYSFUNCTION THROUGH
AN INDIRECT EFFECT"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'endo'
subtitle: "L Yeung, A Pusparajah, J Yung, R Chu, A Giacca"
---
__L Yeung<sup>1</sup>__, A Pusparajah<sup>1</sup>, J Yung<sup>2</sup>, R Chu<sup>2</sup>, A Giacca<sup>1</sup>

__<sup>1</sup>__ _Department of Physiology,Faculty of Medicine, University of
Toronto, Ontario, Canada_  
<sup>2</sup>_Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Toronto, Ontario, Canada_

Chronic hyperglycemia in type 2 diabetes (T2D) can cause harmful effects
on pancreatic β-cells known as “β-cell glucotoxicity”. Oxidative stress,
associated with glucotoxicity, can increase c-jun N-terminal kinase
(JNK) expression, which has been shown to decrease insulin gene
transcription. JNK inhibition was also shown to improve insulin
sensitivity. However, it is uncertain whether JNK inhibition can protect
β-cells from glucotoxicity. Our lab has previously shown that rats
infused with JNK inhibitor, SP600125, and JNK-null mice were both
protected from glucotoxicity in _ex vivo_ experiments. Although these
results suggest that JNK is a promising novel target for the prevention
of T2D, itis unclear whether JNK activation is causal in β-cell
glucotoxicity through a direct or indirect effect. We hypothesize that
JNK inhibition directly protects β-cells from glucose-induced
dysfunction because JNK reduce insulin gene expression. We
investigated the potential direct effectby inducing glucotoxicity in 1)
rat islets incubated with and without SP600125 and 2) islets from JNK-1
null mice. The _in vitro_ model allowed experimentation of islets in
isolation from other tissues. Glucotoxicity was achieved by incubating
islets in control or high glucose (HG) media for 48hrs. Although there
was significant improvement of glucose stimulated insulin secretion
(GSIS)compared to HG, GSIS was still depressed compared to controlin
both the pharmacological and genetic model. Other than improving insulin
secretion levels, SP600125 reduced basal hypersecretion of HG
treatments.These results indicate that JNK inhibition may only partially
protect islet function through a direct pathway.Additionally, JNK
activity, determined by measuring phosphorylated c-jun via western blot,
was elevated with HG, which support that JNK activation is associated
with glucose-induced islet dysfunction. We have demonstrated that
inhibition of JNK only protected islets from glucotoxicity to a certain
extent. However, additional mechanistic studies need to done to further
understand and support these findings.
