---
layout: post
title: "THE CEREBROVASCULAR SAFETY OF TYPE 2 DIABETES TREATMENTS"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'neuro'
subtitle: "V.Y. Szeto, R. Liu, H. Wang, B. Xu, T. Jin, E. Mannucci, Z.P. Feng, H.S. Sun."
---

**<sup>1</sup>V.Y. Szeto**, <sup>1</sup>R. Liu, <sup>1,2</sup>H. Wang, <sup>1,2</sup>B. Xu, <sup>1,3</sup>T. Jin,<sup>4</sup>E. Mannucci, <sup>1</sup>Z.P. Feng, <sup>1,2,3,5</sup>H.S. Sun.

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada
<sup>2</sup>Department of Surgery, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada
<sup>3</sup>Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, Ontario Canada
<sup>4</sup>Diabetology, Careggi Hospital, University of Florence, Florence,
Italy
<sup>5</sup>Department of Pharmacology, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada_

Diabetes mellitus and its common comorbidities increase stroke risk
significantly, especially if glycemic control is inadequate.
Sulfonylureas are the oldest and most commonly used oral anti-diabetic.
Sulfonylureas inhibit K~ATP~ channels of pancreatic beta cell causing
depolarization and triggering insulin granules release. The use of
sulfonylureas may be problematic as K~ATP~ channel activity demonstrates
protection against ischemic injury. Many studies focus on cardiovascular
safety however few studies address the stroke risk associated with
diabetes therapy. Thus, we investigated the role of K~ATP~ channels in
neuroprotection against ischemic brain injury and stroke risk associated
with oral anti-diabetics. To determine diabetes’ effect on stroke
outcome, streptozotocin (STZ) was injected to induce hyperglycemia and
middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) performed to model stroke. The
role of K~ATP~ channel in neuroprotection was revealed by K~ATP~ agonist
and antagonist applied *in vitro* (oxygen-glucose deprivation of neuron
cultures) and in *in vivo* model (MCAO) of ischemic stroke. A systematic
meta-analysis was performed and multivariate logistic regression was
used to determine stroke risk associated with different oral
anti-diabetic therapies. STZ-induced diabetic mice displayed larger
infarct volume, upregulation of stroke related proteins and greater
behavioral deficits post-MCAO. Application of K~ATP~ antagonist
increased OGD-induced cell death and MCAO-induced infarct and
neurobehavioral deficits while K~ATP~ agonist conferred neuroprotection.
Meta-analysis of 17 randomized controlled trials showed higher stroke
morbidity rates in type two diabetic patients using sulfonylureas as
compared to other anti-diabetic drugs. Our data suggests sulfonylurea
use reduces neuroprotection provided by K~ATP~ channels in ischemic
events and increases stroke risk of type 2 diabetic patients. Due to
cost and efficacy, sulfonylureas play an important role in the
management of hyperglycemia, however as the diabetic population grows,
mitigating risk for complications is critical. Therefore, more evidence
from clinical trials and careful assessment of cardiovascular and stroke
risk of anti-diabetic drugs is needed.
