---
layout: post
title: "ANTENATAL GLUCOCORTICOID THERAPY AND OXIDATIVE STRESS IN THE FETAL
HIPPOCAMPUS"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'repro'
tags: repro poster
subtitle: "S. . Sarkar, A. Mouratidis, V.G. Moisiadis, A. Kostaki, S.G. Matthews"
---
__<sup>1</sup>S. Sarkar, <sup>1</sup>__A. Mouratidis, <sup>1</sup>V.G. Moisiadis, <sup>1</sup>A. Kostaki,
<sup>1</sup>S.G. Matthews

<sup>1</sup>_Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada_

Antenatal synthetic glucocorticoid (sGC) therapy promotes lung
development in preterm (&lt;32 weeks) infants and reduces the risk of
respiratory distress syndrome. However, antenatal sGC exposure has been
associated with altered brain development, particularly of the
hippocampus, leading to long-term effects on behavioural and endocrine
outcomes. Exposure to sGC has been shown to increase oxidative stress in
brain tissue. Prolonged imbalance between reactive oxygen species (ROS)
and antioxidant defense mechanisms lead to oxidative damage through
increased peroxidation of DNA, proteins/enzymes, and membrane
phospholipids. In the present study, we hypothesized that prenatal sGC
therapy will promote oxidative stress by decreasing the gene expression
of one or more enzymes from the antioxidant defense mechanism in fetal
hippocampi. Pregnant guinea pigs were treated with betamethasone
(1mg/kg) or vehicle on gestational days (GD) 40&41, and 50&51. Fetal
hippocampi were extracted on GD52. qRT-PCR was used to determine the
mRNA levels of the following antioxidant enzymes: glutathione peroxidase
(GPx4, GPx7), superoxide dismutase (Sod1, Sod2), thioredoxin (Txn),
peroxiredoxin (Prdx3, Prdx6), and catalase (Cat). Previous research has
shown a positive correlation between increased expression of the genes
encoding enzymatic antioxidants and the concentration of the endogenous
antioxidants. However, the current study showed that exposure to sGC did
not significantly affect the expression of genes encoding the
antioxidant enzymes in the fetal hippocampus. Further investigation is
required to verify evidence of oxidative damage in the fetal hippocampus
in response to sGC therapy. This includes quantification of protein
carbonylation, relative glutathione redox ratio, and lipid peroxidation
by-products such as 4-hydroxynonenal and malondialdehyde. It is
important to understand the long-term effects of antenatal sGC therapy
and the specific mechanisms involved, as \~10% of births are at risk of
preterm delivery and many of these women will receive sGC therapy.
