---
layout: post
title: "Regulation of phospholamban expression and function in cardiomyocytes
by the A-kinase Anchoring Protein family and by protein degradation
mechanisms"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'cardio'
subtitle: "F. Hakem Zadeh, A. Teng, Li. W, A. O. Gramolini "
---
**<sup>1, 2</sup>F. Hakem Zadeh**, <sup>1, 2</sup>A. Teng, <sup>1, 2</sup>Li. W,
<sup>1, 2, 3, 4</sup>A. O. Gramolini 

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario,
M5G 1M1 
<sup>2</sup>Ted Rogers Centre for Heart Research, 661 University Ave., Toronto,
Ontario, M5G 1M1 
<sup>3</sup>Heart and Stroke/Richard Lewar Centre of Cardiovascular Excellence,
Ontario, Canada, 
<sup>4</sup>Toronto General Hospital Research Institute , Ontario, Canada _

Heart failure is a leading cause of death in Canada. A common
characteristic of this disease is dysregulated Ca<sup>2+<sup> cycling. In
cardiomyocytes, Ca<sup>2+<sup> levels are regulated by Sarco(endo)plasmic
reticulum Ca<sup>2+<sup>-ATPase (SERCA), which is responsible for Ca<sup>2+<sup> uptake
from the cytosol into the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) following
contraction. SERCA is reversibly inhibited by binding of Phospholamban
(PLN). PLN inhibition is regulated through phosphorylation of Ser16 by
protein kinase A (PKA). We have identified and characterized 3 human PLN
genetic mutations – R9C, R14Del, and L39stop – were associated with
dilated cardiomyopathy. Our studies revealed that these mutants exhibit
altered protein phosphorylation, protein stabilities and localization.
Therefore, we are interested in investigating the mechanisms by which
PLN is phosphorylated, with specific focus on A-kinase anchoring
proteins (AKAPs), as well as exploring the PLN degradation pathways, and
how PLN mutants alter these pathways.  

 For protein degradation studies, immunoblotting, cellular imaging and
pulse-chase experiments showed that upon inhibition of lysosomal and
autophagic functions, endogeneous PLN protein levels were increased.
Conversely, the induction of autophagy with metformin reduced PLN levels
in wild-type and R9C PLN upon ubiquitinylation of PLN.   

 To study the AKAPs in cardiac muscle, we used publically-available RNA
sequencing data and Human Protein Atlas human histological staining to
identify muscle AKAP (mAKAP) as a cardiac muscle, SR-enriched, potential
regulator of PLN. Our immunofluorescent data from co-transfected HEK
cells and cultured neonatal and adult mouse cardiomyocytes show mAKAP is
highly expressed in the cardiac SR, with significant co-staining with
endogenous and/or flag epitope-tagged PLN. Additionally,
immunoprecipitation (IP) in co-transfected HEKs show co-IP of mAKAP and
PLN, suggesting potential physical interaction. 

 My ongoing studies include exploring PLN mutants’ half-life,
identifying the PLN ubiquitin ligase(s) responsible for the protein
degradation, and examining other AKAPs that might regulate PLN
phosphorylation. In conclusion, these results determine the possible
mechanisms involved for regulation of PLN activity in cardiomyocytes.  
