---
layout: post
title: "ACTION POTENTIAL-INDUCED CALCIUM
RESPONSES ACTIVELY BACKPROPAGATE IN SPINAL CORD LAMINA I NEURONS"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'neuro'
subtitle: "J Charish, N Tassew, A Shabanzadeh, S Sethuramanujam, G Awatramani and P Monnier"
tags: brain oral
---
**<sup>1,4</sup>J Charish**, <sup>4</sup>N Tassew, <sup>4</sup>A Shabanzadeh, <sup>3</sup>S Sethuramanujam,
<sup>3</sup>G Awatramani and <sup>1,2,4</sup>P Monnier

<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology and <sup>2</sup>Department of Ophthalmology,
University of Toronto, ON, Canada; <sup>3</sup>Department of Biology, University
of Victoria, BC, Canada and <sup>4</sup>Genetics and Development, Krembil
Research Institute, ON, Canada

Retinitis Pigmentosa (RP) is a genetically inherited condition
characterized by progressive loss of photoreceptor cells and represents
one of the most prevalent causes of blindness among working populations
in developed countries. The mechanisms leading to photoreceptor death
remain largely unknown and there are no treatments. We have previously
shown that the protein Neogenin is involved in regulating cell survival
in the CNS. Here we show that Neogenin expression is induced in
degenerating photoreceptors in two mouse RP models (RD1 and RD10).
RT-PCR from canine RP retinas and IHC from human RP retinas also show
similar Neogenin induction. Degenerating photoreceptors have abnormally
high levels of cGMP and cAMP, and here we demonstrate that 8-Bromo-cAMP
administration was sufficient to induce Neogenin expression *in-vivo* in
wild type mouse photoreceptors and *in-vitro* in human photoreceptor
surrogate cells. Using targeted *in-vivo* electroporation, we then
demonstrate that i) overexpressing Neogenin in mouse photoreceptors
induces cell death and ii) that silencing Neogenin in degenerating RD1
photoreceptors promotes survival. This suggests Neogenin acts as a
previously unidentified pro-death signal in RP. To develop a potential
therapeutic approach for targeting Neogenin in RP, we utilized a
Neogenin function blocking peptide (4Ig) which we developed in house and
have previously shown to be capable of blocking Neogenin’s pro-apoptotic
activity. Intravitreal injections of 4Ig were administered at the onset
of photoreceptor degeneration in RD1 and RD10 mice. When assessed at
advanced stages of disease progression, 4Ig treatment significantly
improved i) rod photoreceptor survival, ii) cone photoreceptor survival
and iii) photoreceptor outer segment morphology. Remarkably,
photoreceptor function was also shown to be significantly improved
following 4Ig treatment as demonstrated by i) improved light-evoked
ganglion cell recordings, ii) improved
scotopic/photopicelectroretinogram recordings and iii) improved visual
acuity (OptoMotry; CerebralMechanics). Targeting Neogenin therefore
represents an exciting new approach for the treatment of RP.
