---
layout: post
title: "ASSESSING THE ROLE OF COG5 AND SRD5A3 ON PROTEIN GLYCOSYLATION IN THE
RETINA AND THEIR ROLE IN RETINAL DEGENERATION"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'neuro'
subtitle: "S. Tabbarah, J. Charish, S. Li, Y. Yin, E. Tavares, A. Vincent, E. Heon, P. Monnier"
tags: brain poster
---
**<sup>1</sup>S. Tabbarah,** <sup>1</sup>J. Charish, <sup>2</sup>S. Li, <sup>2</sup>Y. Yin, <sup>2</sup>E. Tavares,
<sup>3</sup>A. Vincent, **<sup>3</sup>**E. Heon, <sup>1</sup>P. Monnier

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada
<sup>2</sup>Program of Genetics and Genome Biology, The Hospital for Sick
Children, ON, Canada
<sup>3</sup>Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Sciences, The Hospital for
Sick Children; University of Toronto, ON, Canada_

Various gene mutations have been linked to retinitis pigmentosa (RP),
most of which are mutations in the photoreceptor protein rhodopsin
(Rho), however, there remains various forms of the disease that are
unaccounted for by any of these mutations. Recently, Dr. Elise Heon’s
team has identified novel mutations in two genes, COG5 and SRD5A3, which
have been linked to RP. Conserved oligomeric complex (COG) aids the
Golgi complex in carrying out post-translational glycosylation and
steroid 5-alpha reductase subunit 3 (SRD5A3) plays a key role in
N-glycosylation in the endoplasmic reticulum. RP results from the death
of rod cells, where Rho is the most abundant protein present. Rho needs
to be glycosylated in order to properly localize in the rod cells. If
the process of glycosylation is disrupted, as is thought to happen when
a defective COG5 or SRD5A3 protein is present, then Rho will be
mislocalized, leading to rod cell disruption and displaying symptoms of
RP. To investigate the link between COG5 and SRD5A3 mutations and
disruption in Rho glycosylation, RNA interference was used to knock-down
protein expression in vitro and in vivo. The effect of this knockdown
will be assessed through cryosectioning and visualizing
immunofluorescence in cells and tissues and assessing levels of rod cell
degeneration, rhodopsin mislocalization and/or rhodopsin
misglycosylation. Additionally, the human-form mutations will be induced
in GFP-tagged constructs of the genes for transfection in mice to assess
their specific effects. Afterwards, mouse models will be developed
harboring the mutations in order to perform behavioral visual
assessments and understanding the global effect of the mutations. This
study will contribute to the understanding of the mechanism behind not
only RP, but also several other severe diseases that are due to defects
in glycosylation.
