---
layout: post
title: "THE INFLUENCE OF PHYSICAL ACTIVITY AND METFORMIN IN THE
ADIPOCYTE-EPITHELIAL OVARIAN CANCER MICROENVIRONMENT"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'repro'
tags: repro poster
subtitle: "R. McQuaid, E. Kadriu, R. Nazari, K. Giommi, R. Babcock, I. Jurisica, A. Jurisicova"
---
__R. McQuaid__<sup>1,2,3</sup>__,__ E. Kadriu<sup>2</sup>, R. Nazari<sup>,3</sup>, K. Giommi<sup>2</sup>, R.
Babcock<sup>2</sup>, I. Jurisica<sup>3</sup>, A. Jurisicova<sup>1,2</sup>

_Department of Physiology<sup>1</sup> & Cell and Systems Biology<sup>2</sup>, University
of Toronto, 1 King’s College Circle, Toronto, ON, Canada ;
Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute<sup>2</sup>, Mount Sinai Hospital, 25 Orde
St., Toronto, ON, Canada ;_

_Princess Margaret Cancer Centre<sup>3</sup>, 101 College St., Toronto, ON,
Canada_

Almost 65% of women diagnosed with epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC)
succumb to the disease due to its detection at an advanced stage. The
host-energy balance and the tumor microenvironment can influence disease
progression, as caloric excess is tumor promoting; while caloric
restriction and physical activity delay EOC progression. In the tumor
microenvironment, EOC cells exfoliate from the primary tumor and
metastasize to the intraperitoneal fat, using adipocytes as a fuel for
growth. Our previous experiments, analyzing the tumors from
treadmill-exercised mice showed the down-regulation of the AMPK and IGF
signaling. Modifying the adipocyte-cancer microenvironment through the
host-adipocyte phenotype by physical activity or use of an
exercise-mimetic, Metformin, could regulate the flux of fatty acid
metabolism and attenuate EOC metabolism and behaviour. Female C57BL/6
mice were exercised on a motorized treadmill (21m/min/1hr, 3
times/week/12weeks) or sedentary. Mature adipocytes were collected from
exercised/sedentary animals, and co-cultured with mouse ovarian cancer
cells (MOSEC) for 24-48 hours in starved media with and without
Metformin (50uM). Exercised adipocytes and metformin-treated conditions
mitigated the MOSEC cell growth in comparison to the tumor promoting
effect adipocytes isolated from sedentary animals. Exercised adipocytes
and metformin treated co-cultures resulted in the reduced accumulation
of lipid droplets, and an increased phosphorylation of AMPK and
acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC). Further, these conditions increased MOSEC
mitochondrial activity and reduced ATP production. Metformin also
altered the appearance of the mitochondrial network morphology and
increased the mRNA abundance of genes involved in mitochondrial
dynamics. These differences in nutrition signaling pathways and
mitochondrial dynamics may be the adaptations by the cancer cells to
meet its energetic demands and survival in a challenging
microenviromental milieu.
