---
layout: post
title: "ROLE AND REGULATION OF IGFBP-4 IN THE RODENT INTESTINE"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'endo'
subtitle: "K. Austin, D. Tsang, M. Maalouf, P.L. Brubaker"
---

__<sup>1</sup>K. Austin__, <sup>1</sup>D. Tsang, <sup>1</sup>M. Maalouf, <sup>1,2</sup>P.L. Brubaker

_Departments of_ <sup>1</sup>_Physiology and_ <sup>2</sup>_Medicine, University of
Toronto, ON, Canada_

Insulin-like Growth Factor Binding Protein-4 (IGFBP-4) is a binding
protein that regulates the activity of Insulin-like Growth Factor-1
(IGF-1). Whole body IGFBP-4 knockout (KO) mice have increased intestinal
weight and proliferation compared to wild-type mice. This suggests that
IGFBP-4 inhibits intestinal growth by inhibiting epithelial
proliferation. To study the role of IGFBP-4 in vitro, rat intestinal
epithelial cells (IEC-6) and the murine organoid culture, which
recapitulates the 3D structure of the intestinal epithelium, were used.
IEC-6 cells, which are known to respond to IGF-1 with increased
proliferation, displayed a dose-dependent decrease in proliferation in
response to IGFBP-4 (p&lt;0.05). Consistently, murine IGFBP-4 KO
organoid cultures displayed a 1.4±0.2-fold increase in expression of
Lgr5 mRNA (p&lt;0.05), a marker of intestinal stem cells compared to
wild-type organoids. In addition, IGFBP-4 KO organoids displayed
increased cross-sectional surface area, an indicator of proliferation,
in response to IGF-1 treatment compared to control organoids. To study
the regulation of IGFBP-4 expression within the epithelium, IEC-6 cells
were treated with IGF-1 and/or Epidermal Growth Factor (EGF), a known
enhancer of IGF-1-signaling. Six hours of IGF-1 and/or EGF treatment
together did not increase IGFBP-4 mRNA expression compared to vehicle
control. Consistently, 48-hour treatment of IGF-1 and/or EGF did not
increase IGFBP-4 protein expression or secretion compared to vehicle
control. Sox9 mRNA and pAkt protein expression was used as positive
control (p&lt;0.05). In vivo, inducible, intestinal epithelial-specific
IGF-1 receptor KO mice and wild-type mice were given the EGF signaling
inhibitor, CI-1033, or vehicle for 11 days, as a chronic loss of
function model. However, loss of IGF-1R, together with inhibition of EGF
signaling did not result in altered mucosal mRNA expression of IGFBP-4.
Overall, this study establishes the role of IGFBP-4 as inhibitory for
basal intestinal epithelial proliferation and that its expression is not
regulated by IGF-1 or EGF.
