---
layout: post
title: "ELUCIDATING THE ROLE OF FGF SIGNALING DURING PANCREATIC DEVELOPMENT"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
tags: endo poster
platform: 'endo'
subtitle: "E. McGaugh, M.C. Nostro"
---
__<sup>1,2,3</sup>E. McGaugh__, <sup>1,2,3</sup>M.C. Nostro

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada;
<sup>2</sup>Toronto General Research Institute, ON, Canada; <sup>3</sup>University Health
Network, ON, Canada_

Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) is caused by the destruction of β cells. Human
embryonic stem cells (HESC) offer a potential therapy for T1D patients
as hESC provide an unlimited source of cells for transplantation. We
differentiate hESC to pancreatic progenitor (PP) cells in vitro
following a 4-stage protocol. PPs generate all pancreatic cells upon
transplantation into mice and can be further differentiated to β-like
cells (βLC) in vitro. The goal of my project is to expand and
characterize PPs in order to have an enhanced population for
transplantation and/or for further differentiation to β-cells in vitro.
We performed a mass spectrometry analysis to identify cell surface
markers exclusively expressed by PPs compared to hESC and polyhormonal
(PH) cells. One marker exclusively expressed by PPs was the fibroblast
growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3). FGFR3 is expressed in many tissues,
including the pancreas, where its inhibition is linked to murine
pancreatic epithelium expansion. I hypothesize that by taking advantage
of FGF signaling during pancreatic differentiation, we can increase the
number and purity of PPs. Significantly higher FGFR3 expression was
detected in PPs compared to hESCs and PH cells by qPCR and flow
cytometry, thereby validating the mass spectrometry results. The
expression of FGFR3 was evaluated at each stage of PP differentiation.
FGFR3 peaks at the definitive endoderm stage, drops during the posterior
foregut stage and increases as cells commit to PDX1</sup>+<sup>NKX6-1</sup>+<sup>PPs. Two
FGFR3 ligands (FGF2&FGF4) were added during stage3 of differentiation
alongside FGF10, a ligand that does not bind FGFR3. To quantify the
percentage of PPs, I performed flow cytometry for PDX1/NKX6-1. FGF2 and
FGF4 decreased the percentage of PPs compared to the untreated and
FGF10-treated groups, indicating FGFR3 could inhibit human pancreatic
development. Future experiments involve stimulating/inhibiting FGFR3 to
identify the effect on the proliferation and differentiation capacity of
PPs.
