---
layout: post
title: "COMPARATIVE CHARACTERISTICS OF MYOMETRIAL AND DECIDUAL CHEMOKINES
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE INFILTRATION OF PERIPHERAL LEUKOCYTES INTO TERM
UTERINE TISSUES"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
tags: repro poster
platform: 'repro'
subtitle: "T Farine, O Shynlova, SJ Lye"
session: poster
---
__<sup>1,2</sup>T. Farine__, <sup>2,3</sup>O. Shynlova, <sup>1,2,3,4</sup>S. J. Lye

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada;
<sup>2</sup>Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, ON,
Canada; Department of <sup>3</sup>Obstetrics and <sup>4</sup>Gynecology, University of
Toronto, ON, Canada_

Infiltration of leukocytes into the uterine tissues is an essential step
in parturition. In this study we examined (1) cytokine/chemokine
profiles secreted by primary human myometrial and decidual cells, and
(2) the effect of myometrial and decidual secreted factors on peripheral
leukocyte activation and neutrophil transendothelial migration (TEM).
Myometrial biopsies and decidual samples collected from elective
caesarean section (term not in labour, TNL) underwent collagenase
digestion to obtain primary cells which were serum-starved, generating
myometrial (MCM) and decidual conditioned media (DCM). MCM/DCM was
analyzed by 45-plex Luminex assay for cytokine/chemokine protein
expression. To assess the activation of peripheral leukocytes by flow
cytometry, whole blood collected from pregnant women was treated with
MCM/DCM followed by antibody staining with leukocyte sub-population
markers (CD45-leukocytes, CD14-monocytes, CD15-granulocytes) and
leukocyte activation markers (CD11b, CD44 and CD55). For TEM assays, a
monolayer of aortic endothelial cells was formed in 3µm inserts and
primed with MCM/DCM. Neutrophils were isolated from pregnant women’s
peripheral blood, fluorescently-labeled, and co-cultured with the
CM-primed endothelial monolayer for 1-hour. Fluorescence of migrated
cells collected from the lower well was measured. We found (1) DCM
expressed significantly higher levels of all cytokines detected compared
to MCM; (2) Both MCM and DCM treatment significantly upregulated the
expression of activation markers on monocytes and granulocytes, with a
greater upregulation induced by DCM; (3) TEM of neutrophils through
MCM/DCM-primed endothelial cells was significantly enhanced compared to
control neutrophils, with DCM priming eliciting a greater response
compared to MCM. Cytokines involved in activation and infiltration of
peripheral leukocytes were detected in media conditioned by TNL
myometrial and decidual primary cells; they induced activation of
peripheral leukocytes and TEM, implicating their potential role in the
inflammatory cascade activated during parturition. We speculate that the
decidua plays a coordinating role at the maternal-fetal interface by
contributing to myometrial inflammation.
