---
layout: post
title: "MATCHED HISTOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT YIELDS CLINICAL REFINEMENT WITHIN
PLACENTAL TRANSCRIPTIONAL SUBTYPES OF PREECLAMPSIA"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'repro'
subtitle: "K. Leavey, S. Benton, D. Grynspan, S. Bainbridge, B. Cox"
---
__<sup>1</sup>K. Leavey__, <sup>3</sup>S. Benton, <sup>4</sup>D. Grynspan, <sup>3</sup>S. Bainbridge,
<sup>1,2</sup>B. Cox

_Departments of <sup>1</sup>Physiology and <sup>2</sup>Obstetrics and Gynecology,
University of Toronto, ON, Canada; Departments of <sup>3</sup>Cellular and
Molecular Medicine and <sup>4</sup>Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University
of Ottawa, ON, Canada_

Preeclampsia (PE) is a complex, heterogeneous disorder of pregnancy,
demonstrating a high degree of variability in observed maternal symptoms
and fetal outcomes. To investigate this heterogeneity, we previously
collected a large cohort of placenta samples from the RCWIH BioBank
(N=157), representing a range of PE presentations. This cohort was
initially subjected to microarray assessment, followed by unsupervised
clustering analysis, which revealed five distinct molecular clusters of
placental gene expression. However, we still observed some patients with
a similar molecular presentation but different clinical outcomes. We,
therefore, hypothesized that the addition of histopathological
information would improve our understanding of the final functional
state of these tissues. To address this hypothesis, paraffin-embedded
quadruplicate placental biopsies for all available samples in our cohort
(N=142/157) were purchased from the BioBank, sectioned, H&E stained, and
imaged. An expert perinatal pathologist blindly scored each placenta for
31 different pathological lesions, belonging to 9 “dimensions” of
biological significance. This revealed that placentas belonging to
transcriptional clusters 2 and 4 remained fairly cohesive by histology.
Cluster 1, which appeared normal by gene expression, sub-split by
histology into truly healthy placentas and those with PE and low levels
of maternal malperfusion lesions (dimension 1). Cluster 3, defined by an
abundance of immune response genes, formed 3 subgroups by histology:
samples with massive perivillous fibrin deposition (dimension 8),
delivered at term with fetal growth restriction (FGR); samples with
signs of maternal malperfusion, delivered preterm with FGR; and samples
with no indications of pathology, born at term with no FGR. Finally,
transcriptional cluster 5 placentas, with known confined placental
mosaicism but no clinical cohesion, appeared histologically similar to
samples with similar clinical outcomes. Overall, the integration of
histological information in these PE-focused placentas has improved the
clinical utility of our results and further refined our previously
identified transcriptional clusters, reducing heterogeneity.
