---
layout: post
title: "MAKING KIDNEY ORGANOIDS FROM RENAL PROGENITORS DIFFERENTIATED FROM
PLURIPOTENT STEM CELLS"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'repro'
tags: repro poster
subtitle: "T. Chow, J. Whiteley, A. Nagy and I. Rogers"
---
__T. Chow__<sup>1,2</sup>, J. Whiteley<sup>2</sup>, A. Nagy<sup>2,3,4</sup> and I. Rogers<sup>1,2,3</sup>

_Department of Physiology<sup>1</sup>, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute<sup>2</sup>,
Mount Sinai Hospital, Ontario, Canada; Department of Obstetrics and
Gynecology<sup>3</sup>, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Ontario,
Canada; Institute of Medical Science<sup>4</sup>, Faculty of Medicine, University
of Toronto, Ontario, Canada_

Pluripotent stem cells (PSC) represent a class of stem cells that has
the ability to self-renew and differentiate into cells of the endoderm,
mesoderm and ectoderm lineages. Given these features, PSC have great
potential in different applications of personalized medicine, including
disease modeling, drug screening and discovery, cell therapy, and
tissue/organ regeneration. One main challenge to using PSC in
personalized medicine is the ability to direct the differentiation of
PSC to the target cell types and only the target cell types. Here in our
proof-of-principle experiment, we show that we can differentiate mouse
embryonic stem cells (ESC) to renal progenitors that resemble and behave
like native embryonic kidney cells. Specifically, our differentiation
protocol involves culturing a monolayer of PSC in a series of mesoderm,
intermediate mesoderm, and progenitor induction media. At the end of the
21 day differentiation protocol, we get a mixture of kidney cell types,
including nephron progenitors (Six2+, Wt1+, Pax2+), ureteric bud cells
(Cytokeratin 8+) and stromal cells (Pbx1+). Dissociated embryonic kidney
cells have the intrinsic ability to self-organize into renal structures
when aggregated and cultured on an air-liquid interface. And similar to
embryonic kidney cells, aggregation of the PSC-derived renal progenitors
results in the formation of N cadherin+, LTL+, and Cytokeratin 8+
tubules, all surrounded by Pbx1+ stromal cells. Furthermore, these
tubular structures are supported by extracellular matrix proteins
Collagen IV, Laminin and Fibronectin, which were all produced by the
cells themselves. Lastly, we showed that the PSC-derived renal
progenitors can be expanded and still retain the ability to form
organoids. Together, our preliminary data show that PSC can be
differentiated towards the renal lineage, and the renal progenitors
resemble and behave like embryonic kidney cells. With this knowledge, we
are starting to overcome the main challenge of using PSC in applications
of personalized medicine.
