---
layout: post
title: "GENOME WIDE ASSOCIATION STUDY FOR VARIANTS ASSOCIATED WITH READING
SKILLS AND ABILITY"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'neuro'
subtitle: "K. Price, K.G. Wigg, V. Misener, K. Blokland, E. Kerr, S Guger, M. W. Lovett, C.L. Barr"
tags: brain poster
---
**K. Price<sup>1</sup>**<sup>,2,3</sup>, K.G. Wigg<sup>1</sup>, V. Misener<sup>1</sup>, K. Blokland<sup>2</sup>, E.
Kerr<sup>2,3</sup>, S Guger<sup>2,3</sup>, M. W. Lovett<sup>2,3</sup>, C.L. Barr<sup>1,2\ ,3</sup>

_¹Krembil Research Institute, University Health Network, Toronto, ON,
Canada
<sup>2</sup> The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON, Canada
<sup>3</sup> University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada_

Reading disability (RD) represents the lower tail of the normal
distribution for reading and is the most common learning disorder
affecting children in North America. Heritability estimates range from
30 to 70 percent; however, RD associated genetic variants largely remain
unknown. In this study we sought to characterize genetic variants
association with reading skills and abilities. We performed genome wide
association (GWA) analyses on 5457 individuals from two well
characterized samples. Reading ability was assessed using a phonological
decoding test and unobserved genetic variants were imputed. Preliminary
results indicate rs1269628 (p&lt;4.0 x 10<sup>-5</sup>) and rs1269634 (p&lt;1.0 x
10<sup>-5</sup>) in the *NRCAM* gene as potential reading associated variants.
*NRCAM* is a neuronal cell adhesion molecule associated with autism
spectrum disorder (ASD). Rs1269628, located in an intron, and rs1269634,
located in the 5’ UTR, are in strong linkage disequilibrium (r<sup>2</sup>=0.97).
The rs1269628 variant is found in an H3K4Me1 site and is associated with
a protein truncation through alternative splicing in exon 7, suggesting
a possible functional role. *BBS5* was also found to be associated with
reading (p\~10<sup>-5</sup>), which is implicated in intellectual disability,
learning disability, speech impairment, behavioural problems, and ASD.
These findings are interesting given our study had strict inclusion
criteria that excluded individuals with intellectual disability and ASD.
Meta-analysis will allow us to further investigate these targets and
increase power. This will contribute to better understanding the genetic
etiology of reading and its genetic association to other disorders.
