---
layout: post
title: "THE ROLE OF PAK SIGNALING IN THE REGULATION OF SYNAPTIC PLASTICITY AND
SOCIAL MEMORY"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'neuro'
subtitle: "C. Leung, F. Cao, Z.P. Jia"
tags: brain poster
---
**<sup>1,2</sup>C. Leung**, **<sup>1,2</sup>** F. Cao, <sup>1,2</sup>Z.P. Jia

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada;* *<sup>2</sup>Department of Neurosciences and
Mental Health, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON, Canada_

Neurodevelopmental disorders including Autism spectrum disorders (ASD)
and intellectual disability (ID) are characterized by social impairments
that impact adaptive functioning. PAKs (p21-activated kinase) are a
family of serine/ threonine protein kinases that are central regulators
of both actin cytoskeleton reorganization and neuronal morphology, and
are involved in synaptic and behavioural plasticity. Recent genetic
screening and post-mortem studies have implicated mutations in the PAK
gene in ASD and ID, but whether and how PAKs are involved in social
behaviour remains unclear. To directly address this question, we have
generated a novel transgenic mouse model using the tetracycline operator
system (tet-off) where the expression of a dominant negative PAK
mutation can be inducibly controlled. We find that the transgenic mice
showed specific deficits in social memory but normal sociability and
novelty recognition. These mice also exhibited impairments in synaptic
transmission and plasticity. The deficits were fully rescued through the
administration of a tetracycline analog, doxycycline. Together, these
results suggest a critical role of PAK signaling in social behaviour in
mice.
