---
layout: post
title: "THE EXPRESSION OF MAJOR ECM PROTEINS-COLLAGEN AND ELASTIN-IS ENHANCED
BY LOCAL ESTROGEN THERAPY IN POSTMENOPAUSAL WOMEN WITH SEVERE POP"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'repro'
subtitle: "T. Tyagi, M. Alarab, S. Lye, O. Shynlova"
---
__<sup>1</sup>T. Tyagi__, <sup>2</sup>M. Alarab, <sup>1,2</sup>S. Lye, <sup>1,2</sup>O. Shynlova

_<sup>1</sup>LTRI, MSH, Toronto, ON, Canada; <sup>2</sup>Ob/Gyn, MSH, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada_

Pelvic Organ Prolapse (POP) affects almost half of postmenopausal women
population. Current treatment options for POP include reconstructive
pelvic surgeries with various vaginal implants and optional Local
Estrogen Therapy (LET). We aim to analyze the effect of LET treatment
on: (1) Gene expression of Elastin and Elastin-related proteins; (2)
Total Collagen and Elastin content; (3) Immunolocalization of
Collagen1,3,5 proteins within vaginal biopsy samples of women with POP.
Postmenopausal women undergoing reconstructive pelvic surgery (POPQ=3-4)
were recruited. Vaginal biopsies were collected from patients treated
with LET (average duration 8 months, N=29) and patients not using LET
(N=23), frozen in liquid nitrogen for biochemical study or fixed in 10%
formalin for histological staining and immunohistochemistry. RNA was
isolated and used for RT-PCR. Protein levels of Collagen and Elastin
were measured using Visiopharm NewCast Software. Immunolocalization of
Collagen 1,3,5 proteins was examined using specific antibodies. We
examined the effect of LET on the mRNA levels of Elastin (ELN) and
proteins involved in its deposition into mature Elastin fibers,
Firbillin1 (FBN1), Fibrillin2 (FBN2) and Fibulin5 (FBLN5). All genes
showed increased expression levels in vaginal biopsies from LET-treated
patients vs non-LET patients: FBN1, FBN2, and ELN showed a significant
increase (p&lt;0.05, 1.7, 6.6, and 8.4 fold correspondingly).
Immunohistochemical staining for COL1, COL3 and COL5 proteins show their
localization in Lamina Propria layer of vaginal biopsy and a higher
staining intensity in LET-treated vs no-LET samples. Similarly, there
was a significant increase in total Collagen and Elastin protein content
(1.5 and 2.3 fold, p&lt;0.05) in LET-treated samples, with majority
localizing in Lamina Propria. The increase in Collagen and Elastin
content, along with increased expression of proteins involved in Elastin
fibers formation, within the vaginal tissue of LET-treated women
suggests a beneficial role of LET in remediation of pelvic floor ECM in
postmenopausal patients with severe POP.
