---
layout: post
title: "THE CIRCULATING FURAN FATTY ACID METABOLITE CMPF DIRECTLY ENHANCES
HEPATIC FGF21 SECRETION AND LIPID METABOLISM"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
tags: endo poster
platform: 'endo'
subtitle: "S.L. Brandt, Y. Liu, H. Mohan, D. Al Rijjal, and M. Wheeler"
---
__<sup>1</sup>S.L. Brandt,__ <sup>1</sup> Y. Liu, <sup>1</sup>H. Mohan, <sup>1</sup>D. Al Rijjal, and <sup>1</sup>M.
Wheeler

<sup>1</sup>_Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada_

Fish oil (FO) supplementation is prescribed to reduce hepatic steatosis.
3-carboxy-4-methyl-5-propyl-2-furanpropanoic acid (CMPF) is a major
metabolite of FO supplementation. Due to FO’s beneficial effects on
hepatic steatosis, we hypothesize that CMPF directly increases fatty
acid oxidation within hepatocytes, thereby decreasing triglyceride
stores and preventing hepatic steatosis. To determine a direct effect on
the liver, isolated murine hepatocytes treated for 24-hours with CMPF
were assessed for metabolic changes. CMPF significantly increased
hepatic fatty acid oxidation without altering phosphorylation or
activity of AMPK or ACC; major regulatory components of fatty acid
oxidation. Insulin resistance, assessed through AKT phosphorylation, was
induced using a 24-hour fat preload. CMPF improved AKT phosphorylation
compared to control-fat treated hepatocytes, indicating improved insulin
sensitivity. To elucidate how CMPF induces fatty acid oxidation, a
microarray on the livers of mice following intraperitoneal CMPF
administration (6mg/kg/day) was performed. Most remarkable was an
elevation in FGF21 expression, a finding paralleled by a significant
elevation in circulating FGF21. Similar observations were captured in
primary hepatocytes, demonstrating direct stimulation of FGF21
expression and secretion by CMPF in the liver. Structurally, CMPF
resembles TOFA; an allosteric ACC inhibitor. Interestingly, TOFA
similarly induces FGF21 in primary hepatocytes, indicating that CMPF may
directly inhibit ACC activity which thereby increases FGF21 expression.
To elucidate the importance of FGF21, WT and FGF21KO mice received
intraperitoneal CMPF administration for 1-week prior to 6-weeks HFD.
Without FGF21, CMPF no longer improved insulin sensitivity or prevented
HFD induced hepatic steatosis _in-vivo_. Therefore, CMPF directly
enhances hepatic lipid metabolism and FGF21 expression, possibly through
direct ACC inhibition. However, it is likely the increase in circulating
FGF21 _in-vivo_, induced by CMPF, that influences whole body energy
metabolism and reduces hepatic steatosis. Our results demonstrate a
potential therapeutic target to prevent hepatic steatosis in obese
individuals in order to maintain glucose homeostasis.
