---
layout: post
title: "TNF-ALPHA EXPOSURE INDUCES NEUROINFLAMMATION AND INSULIN RESISTANCE IN
RAT- AND MOUSE-DERIVED HYPOTHALAMIC CELL MODELS"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
tags: endo oral-session-1
platform: 'endo'
subtitle: "M.N. Clemenzi, M.E. Aljghami,L.Wellhauser, and D.D. Belsham."
---
<sup>1</sup>__M.N. Clemenzi__, <sup>1</sup>M.E. Aljghami,<sup>1</sup>L.Wellhauser, and <sup>1,\ 2</sup>D.D.
Belsham.

_<sup>1</sup>Departments of Physiology, <sup>2</sup>Medicine and <sup>2</sup>Obstetrics and Gynaecology; University of Toronto,ON, Canada._

Obesity is approaching epidemic levels. One of the main characteristics
of obesity is the development of insulin resistance, leading to other
comorbidities, such as type 2 diabetes mellitusand cardiovascular
disease. Insulin resistance has been shown to be induced with obesity in
peripheral tissues such as liver, muscle, and adipocytes by the
pro-inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα).In the
hypothalamus, the main brain region for energy regulation,
neuroinflammation-induced insulin resistance has been demonstrated to
occur upon prolonged treatment with high levels of insulin and
palmitate, and we are exploring whether TNFα, a downstream surrogate for
palmitate, has similar effects.We hypothesized that TNFα-treated
hypothalamic neurons would exhibit cellular neuroinflammation and
insulin resistance as evidenced by increased pro-inflammatory gene
expression and attenuated insulin signaling. Using immortalized rat and
mouse hypothalamic cell lines (rHypoE- 7 and mHypoE-46),
well-characterized NPY-expressing neuronal lines derived from male
embryonic hypothalami, we studied changes in pAkt and inflammatory gene
marker mRNA expression after TNFα treatment by Western blot and
quantitative real-time PCR, respectively.A qPCR array of 84 inflammatory
markers demonstrated increased expression of a number of genes encoding
inflammatory markers, including _Tollip_and _Caspase-1_, upon exposure
to 100 ng/mL TNFα for 4 h. Neurons pre-exposed to 50 ng/mLTNFαfor 6 or
16 h exhibited a significant reduction in pAkt after insulin
re-challenge. TNFα also significantly increased mRNA expression of
_IK-κB_, _Tollip_, _Tnfrsf1a_, and _IL6_ at 4 and 24h.In conclusion,
pre-treatment with the inflammatory cytokine TNFα causes cellular
insulin resistance in rHypoE-7 and mHypoE-46 neurons, consistent with
effects seen with TNFα in peripheral tissues. It also mimics insulin-
and palmitate-induced insulin resistance in hypothalamic neurons.
Further, these results demonstrate that components of the IKK-β/NF-κB
pathway are activated upon exposure to TNFα, providing a target to
reverse neuroinflammation and insulin resistance with anti-inflammatory
agents.
