---
layout: post
title: "Assessment of SIRT3-KO Mouse model: new mouse model for Mania?"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'neuro'
subtitle: "E. Sidorova, J. Eubanks"
tags: brain poster
---
**<sup>12</sup> E. Sidorova**, <sup>12</sup> J. Eubanks

_<sup>1</sup> Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada
<sup>2</sup> Division of Genetics and Development, Krembil Research Institute,
ON, Canada_

The NAD<sup>+</sup>-dependent mitochondrial protein deacetylase, Sirtuin-3
(SIRT3) has been shown to govern a number of mitochondrial targets that
feed forward to pathways involved in anti-oxidative defense systems,
energy production, mitochondrial biogenesis and apoptosis. In line with
these data, we previously showed that SIRT3 exhibits cytoprotective
properties in HEK-293 cells: SIRT3 overexpression decreased cell
sensitivity to glucose deprivation/glucose reperfusion and hydrogen
peroxide treatments. SIRT3 governs molecular pathways that are
demonstrated to have direct relevance to a number of neurological
diseases and conditions, however the role that SIRT3 plays in the brain
has not been thoroughly investigated. Here, we show that SIRT3 is
expressed in the brain and displays a unique regional mRNA and protein
expression pattern in the developing, adult, and aged rat brain.
Furthermore, SIRT3 protein and mRNA is expressed in both astrocytes and
neurons. SIRT3 ubiquitous expression in the brain may hold promising
potential in targetable pharmacological interventions. We also show a
marked increase in global mitochondrial protein lysine acetylation in
the cortex, cerebellum and brain stem in SIRT3-knockout (KO) mice
relative to wild-type mice, indicative of altered mitochondrial
function. Using a battery of behavioural assessments, we show that both
young and aged female SIRT3-KO mice display hyperlocomotor behaviour in
open field, reduced anxiety-like behaviour in plus maze and light/dark
paradigms and also show a loss of locomotor coordination on the rotarod
test. In summary, our behaviour results show that SIRT3-KO mice display
an overall behavioural profile that is similar to mania, and suggest
SIRT3-KO mice to play a role as a previously unrecognized model of
mania.
