---
layout: post
title: "TROPHOBLAST-ENRICHED MICRORNA-15B REGULATES CELL FATE SPECIFICATION
DURING PREIMPLANTATION DEVELOPMENT THROUGH THE HIPPO SIGNALING PATHWAY"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'repro'
subtitle: "U. Nosi, B. Cox"
---
__<sup>1</sup>U. Nosi__, <sup>1,2</sup>B. Cox

__<sup>1</sup>___ Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada_

_<sup>2</sup>Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Toronto, ON,
Canada_

Inability to appropriately specify the extraembryonic (trophectoderm;
TE) and embryonic (inner cell mass; ICM) lineages during preimplantation
development results in infertility due to failed implantation and
further embryonic development. This specification event is controlled by
cell position-dependent Hippo signaling. In outside cells, YAP, the
downstream effector of Hippo, remains unphosphorylated and is free to
translocate into the nucleus where it activates TE genes. Conversely,
active Hippo signaling in the ICM leads to phosphorylation and
cytoplasmic sequestration of YAP. Importantly, deletion of Hippo pathway
component Nf2 results in ectopic nuclear expression of YAP in the ICM,
indicating fate re-specification. Although families of microRNAs have
been implicated in various cellular processes, little is known of their
functions during this cell fate specification event. The transition from
zygote to blastocyst has however been associated with stage-dependent,
dynamic synthesis and degradation of microRNA species, possibly
implicating these endogenous small molecules in the complex mechanisms
driving fate specification. By employing high-throughput transcriptomic
analysis of stem cells representative of the TE and ICM, we previously
identified trophoblast-enriched microRNAs and showed for the first time,
that these microRNAs are sufficient to induce embryonic to
extraembryonic cross-lineage conversion. Of importance, two of these
microRNAs (miR-15b and miR-322) are predicted to target the 5’ and 3’
UTRs of the Nf2 transcript. Here, we have employed a new gene delivery
technology to efficiently and effectively perturb the expression of
miR-15b, and thus its targets, in embryos at various preimplantation
stages. Embryos were collected at embryonic day E0.5, E1.5, E2.5 and
E3.0, treated with synthetic miR-15b for 16 hours, and cultured _in
vitro_ until the untreated controls developed to the late blastocyst
stage. E0.5-treated embryos progressed through the 2-cell stage but
showed evidence of cytokinesis defects and developmental arrest, whereas
treatment of E1.5 embryos led to no observable phenotype. Significant
developmental delay was apparent in E2.5-treated embryos compared to
untreated controls. Finally, we investigated Hippo signaling in
E3.0-treated embryos and observed ectopic expression of YAP in the
nuclei of ICM cells compared to untreated, positive, and negative
control embryos. Our results indicate that microRNAs may be involved in
cell fate specification by modulating components of the Hippo signaling
pathway. We are now employing miRNA-FISH to explore the spatial and
temporal expression pattern of the endogenous miR-15b.
