---
layout: post
title: "E5 - ROLE OF INSULIN-LIKE GROWTH FACTOR BINDING PROTEIN-4 IN INTESTINAL
EPITHELIAL CELL PROLIFERATION"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
tags: endo poster-session-2
platform: 'endo'
subtitle: "M. Maalouf, K. Austin, P.L. Brubaker"
---
__<sup>1</sup>M. Maalouf__, <sup>1</sup>K. Austin, <sup>1,2</sup>P. Brubaker,

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, <sup>2</sup>Departmentof Medicine, University of
Toronto, ON, Canada_

Insulin-Like Growth Factor-1 (IGF-1) exerts intestinotrophic effects
upon binding the Insulin-Like Growth Factor-1 receptor (IGF-1R). These
effects are synergistically enhancedin the presence of Epidermal Growth
Factor (EGF). The Insulin-Like Growth Factor Binding Protein-4 (IGFBP-4)
is known to bind to IGF-1 in serum and has recently been shown to
inhibit intestinal growth both in-vivo and in-vitro. Currently, the
mechanism behind these actions remains poorly understood. Here, we show
that IGFBP-4 inhibits the proliferation of rat intestinal epithelial
cells (IEC-6) in an IGF-1R dependent manner. IEC-6 cellswere treated
with \[methyl-<sup>3</sup>H\]-thymidine with or without 6-hour EGF pre-treatment.
Cells then received either IGF-1R inhibitor (NVP-AEW541, 0.1 or 1µM),
PI3-kinase inhibitors (Wortmannin, 0.5µM; LY294002, 50µM), MEK1/2
inhibitors (PD98059, 10µM; U0126,5µM), or vehicle (Control), with or
without IGFBP-4 (25nM). Disintegrations per minute was used to quantify
\[methyl-<sup>3</sup>H\]-thymidine incorporation, as a measure of proliferation,
and immunoblot was performed to confirm downstream signaling pathway
inhibition. Both PI3-kinase inhibitors decreased Akt phosphorylation,
and both MEK1/2 inhibitors abrogated the phosphorylation of ERK1/2.
Cells treated with 0.1 µM or 1µM NVP-AEW541 showed significant decreases
in proliferation as compared to control by 42.2±6.7% and 58.9±7.8%
respectively (p&lt;0.001). Similar effects were observed when the IEC-6
cells were pre-treated with EGF. As well, cells treated with LY294002,
PD98059, or U0126 showed significant decreases in proliferation as
compared to control by 63.9±3.2%, 75.0±8.3%, and 54.6±20.4, respectively
(p&lt;0.001).Unexpectedly, Wortmannin had no effect on proliferation
(p&gt;0.05).Notably, combined treatment of the IGF-1R or the MEK1/2
inhibitors with IGFBP-4 showed no additive effect on proliferation
(p&gt;0.05 vs. IGFBP-4 alone). These results suggest that IGFBP-4
inhibits intestinal epithelial proliferation through an IGF-1R-and
MEK/ERK1/2-dependent mechanism.
