---
layout: post
title: "RHYTHMIC EXPRESSION OF SNARE PROTEINS IN THE MURINE INTESTINAL
EPITHELIUM"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'endo'
tags: endo oral-session-1
subtitle: "Y. Nahaei, 1S.E. Wheeler, 1A. Martchenko, 1P. Gurges, 1P.L. Brubaker."
---
__<sup>1</sup>Y. Nahaei__, <sup>1</sup>S.E. Wheeler, <sup>1</sup>A. Martchenko, <sup>1</sup>P. Gurges, 1P.L.
Brubaker.

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada _

The secretory mechanism underlying glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1)
release from the intestinal L cell is of much interest due to the
significant role of this gut hormone in stimulating insulin secretion in
a glucose dependent manner. To elucidate the involvement of the known
exocytotic SNARE proteins in L cell secretion, previous studies have
demonstrated both the expression and physical interaction of the core
(syntaxin1a, SNAP25, and VAMP2) and regulatory (munc18-1, aka
syntaxin-binding protein-1) SNARE proteins in the mouse GLUTag L cell
line. Recent proteomic analysis of the same cell line, which has
previously been shown to express a functional circadian clock, further
suggests circadian regulated expression of several SNARE proteins,
including munc18-1. Here, we hypothesized that syntaxin1a and munc18-1
undergo rhythmic expression to facilitate circadian control of GLP-1
secretion. Immunohistochemistry revealed co-localization of both
syntaxin-1a and munc18-1 with GLP-1 in murine intestinal sections. We
further confirmed co- localization of syntaxin-1a and GLP-1 ex vivo in
primary ileal cultures. To investigate the expression of syntaxin-1a and
munc18-1 over the 24-hour day, we performed qRT-PCR on mucosal scrapes
from C57BL/6 mice obtained at 6 different time points. Syntaxin1a
demonstrated a peak in expression at 4pm and a trough at 12am,
consistent with the observed rhythm in expression of proglucagon, the
prohormone that encodes for GLP-1. Moreover, preliminary data indicates
rhythmic expression of munc18-1 over the 24-hour day that paralleled the
changes in Bmal1 expression. However, further work must be conducted to
elucidate the circadian pattern of SNARE protein expression in the L
cell itself. Together, these studies demonstrate for the first time, the
potential circadian expression of SNARE proteins underlying exocytosis
of GLP-1 from the intestinal L cell.
