---
layout: post
title: "E10 - VALIDATION AND MECHANISTICS STUDIES OF GLUCONEOGENESIS REGULATORS
IDENTIFIED FROM ZEBRAFISH CHEMICAL GENETIC SCREENS"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
tags: endo poster-session-1
platform: 'endo'
subtitle: "J. Yun, Y. Wang, W. Liu, K. Bai, Q. Wang, X.Y. Wen"
---
**<sup>1,2</sup>J. Yun,** <sup>1</sup>Y. Wang, <sup>1</sup>W. Liu, <sup>1</sup>K. Bai, <sup>1</sup>Q. Wang, <sup>1,2,3</sup>X.Y. Wen

_<sup>1</sup>Zebrafish Centre for Advanced Drug Discovery, St. Michael’s
Hospital, Toronto, Canada, <sup>2</sup>Department of Physiology, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Canada, <sup>3</sup>Institute of Medical Sciences, University
of Toronto, Toronto, Canada_

High levels of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 (pck1) gene
expression are associated with the development of type 2 diabetes (T2D)
in patients, while decreased pck1 level in mice improves insulin
sensitivity. Using pck1 reporter zebrafish lines, we have previously
screened 727 FDA-approved compounds and identified 10 lead compounds
with potential of decreasing pck1 gene expression. To validate the
potential anti-diabetic effects of these compounds, we used luminescent
and fluorescent zebrafish _Tg(pck1:luc2)_ and _Tg(pck1:Venus)_ and
embryo glucose assay to rank the compounds, and used diabetic mouse
models to further validate the efficacy of the top compounds. Larval
zebrafish were treated with each compound in 96-well or 12-well plates.
Ten lead compounds were ranked based on their ability to regulate pck1
promoter activity, pck1 mRNA, and glucose levels in larval zebrafish.
Two top lead compounds, designated as E-1 and E-2 were selected for
further evaluation and validation studies in mouse models. 6-week old
mice were on high fat diet (HFD) feeding for 3 weeks to mimic the
pre-diabetic conditions followed by five consecutive intraperitoneal
(ip) STZ injections (50mg/kg). Mice were monitored for 3 weeks to ensure
they are diabetic (non-fasting blood glucose (BG) levels above
20mmol/L). Both 12-week old healthy and diabetic mice were treated with
E-1 at 3 and 15mg/kg through ip injection (once per day for 5 days). On
the last day of the treatment, mice were subjected to intraperitoneal
pyruvate tolerance test (iPTT). Negative control group received saline
(10ul/g) and a known anti-diabetic drug, metformin (Met, 50mg/kg) was
used as a positive control. The Met and E-1 treatments led to
significantly lower BG levels relative to saline treatment in diabetic
mice. Experiments are current underway to examine the effects of E-2 on
glucose metabolism in mice. Our study has potential to develop new
anti-diabetic drugs.
