---
layout: post
title: "NOVEL APPROACHES TO INVESTIGATE THE DEVELOPING BLOOD-BRAIN BARRIER"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'repro'
tags: repro poster
subtitle: "A. Naghi, E. Eng, S. Matthews"
---
__<sup>1</sup>A. Naghi__, <sup>1</sup>E. Eng, <sup>1</sup>S. Matthews

<sup>1</sup>_Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada _

_In vitro_ culture systems allow for studies in isolated cell and tissue
explants. However, recapitulation of _in vivo_ organ systems has proved
difficult, especially when studying the blood-brain barrier (BBB). The
large number of cell-types within the neurovascular unit (NVU) act to
influence the structure and function of brain endothelial cells’ (BECs).
Monocultures of BECs do not exhibit the tight-junction integrity
necessary for restricted paracellular permeability witnessed _in vivo._
However, when BECs are cultured with other cell-types present in the
NVU, such as astrocytes (AST), barrier function _in vitro_ is improved.
Thus, our aim is to establish a co-culture system that allows us to
study an improved model of the BBB, _in vivo._ The AST/BEC co-culture
system is established using primary cells that have been isolated from
guinea pig cerebral hemispheres. One hemisphere is used to extract BECs.
Centrifugation in dextran is used to isolate microvessels followed by
collagenase treatment to digest the extracellular matrix and obtain
BECs, which are plated and allowed to grow for 10-14 days. The other
cerebral hemisphere is used to extract ASTs through digestion with
papain/DNAse, and passed through a glass bead column to evade
endothelial contamination. Cells are plated and allowed to grow for 5-7
days. Immunocytochemistry was completed to determine the purity of
cultures. BECs typically express Claudin-5, an important tight-junction
protein while ASTs express high levels of glial fibrillary acidic
protein (GFAP), an intermediate filament protein. BECs appropriately
expressed their marker, Claudin-5, and did not express GFAP. ASTs
appropriately expressed GFAP, and did not express Claudin-5. This
technique gives us a simple way to extract primary cells and establish a
functional BBB, _in vitro_. This co-culture system will allow us to
further investigate specific contributions from ASTs and BECs in
tight-junction integrity and BBB function during development.
