---
layout: post
title: "THE EFFECT OF BISPHENOL A AND BISPHENOL S ON HYPOTHALAMIC
FEEDING-RELATED NPY/AGRP NEURONS"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
tags: endo poster
platform: 'neuro'
subtitle: "N. Loganathan, E. McIlwraith and D.D. Belsham."
---
**<sup>1</sup>N. Loganathan**, <sup>1</sup>E. McIlwraith and <sup>1,2</sup>D.D. Belsham.

_<sup>1</sup>Departments of Physiology,<sup>2</sup>Medicine and <sup>2</sup>Obstetrics and Gynecology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada_

Bisphenol A (BPA), an environmentally ubiquitous endocrine disrupting
chemical (EDC), has been linked to the increasing prevalence of obesity,
and has been revealed to induce adipogenesis, lipogenesis and pancreatic
dysfunction in experimental models. However, the effect of BPA and its
chemically-similar alternative, bisphenol S (BPS), on the hypothalamic
control of energy balance is currently unknown. We hypothesized that BPA
and BPS directly alter orexigenic neuropeptide, NPY and/or AgRP,
expression. Using immortalized murine hypothalamic cell lines
(mHypoE-46, mHypoE-41, mHypoA-2/12 and mHypoA-59), representing
populations of male, female, embryonic- and adult-derived cells, we
studied changes in NPY and AgRP gene expression after BPA or BPS
treatment by quantitative real-time PCR. Exposure to BPA increased AgRP
gene expression in all cell lines (50 and 100 uM), and NPY expression in
the female-derived cell lines (100 uM) at 4 h. Furthermore, exposure to
100 uM BPA for 16 h upregulated NPY and AgRP expression approximately
16-fold and 2-fold, respectively, in the female, mHypoA-59 cells.
Similarly, 100 uM BPS increased AgRP expression at 4 hours in male and
female-derived cells, whereas NPY increased in only the female-derived
lines. As BPA and BPS are putative estrogen mimics, we investigated
their effect on the expression of estrogen receptors. BPA and BPS
decreased the mRNA levels of GPR30 and the ERβ/ERα mRNA ratio,
suggesting the action of these EDCs may be linked to these receptors. We
have also found that BPA upregulated mRNA levels of ER stress markers,
CHOP, Bax/Bcl2, and GRP78, and neuroinflammatory markers, TNFα and IL6,
as well as the transcription factor, ERRγ over 24 h, pointing to
alternative pathways through which BPA may upregulate NPY and AgRP gene
expression. In conclusion, whereas E2 decreases NPY expression, BPA and
BPS increase NPY and AgRP expression, illustrating a potential mechanism
behind EDC-induced dysregulation of feeding, and ultimately obesity, a
primary risk factor for diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
