---
layout: post
title: "ELUCIDATING THE ROLE OF THE CORE CLOCK GENE BMAL1 IN REGULATING
CIRCADIAN SECRETION OF GLUCAGON-LIKE PEPTIDE-1"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'endo'
subtitle: "P. Gurges, A. Martchenko, S.E. Wheeler, R. Oh, B.J. Cox, P.L. Brubaker"
---
__1 P. Gurges,__ 1 A. Martchenko, 1 S.E. Wheeler, 1 R. Oh, 1 B.J. Cox,
1,2 P.L. Brubaker

_Departments of 1 Physiology and 2 Medicine, University of Toronto, ON,
Canada_

Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) is a hormone released by the L-cell in
the small intestine in response to a meal. It has numerous beneficial effects on health; its main function is to increase glucose stimulated insulin secretion, as well as acting as a satiety factor. The circadian clock, which governs many of our biological processes, has been shown to be an important regulator of endocrine and metabolic function. Animals with Type II diabetes mellitus (T2DM) show a loss of circadian rhythmicity in insulin secretion, and circadian disruption in humans has
been associated with a greater risk of both T2DM and obesity. Using the mGLUTag L-cell line, we have recently identified a circadian pattern of GLP-1 secretion which is in phase with Bmal-1 expression, a major clock protein. Hence, GLP-1 secretion and Bmal-1 expression in this L-cell model were both increased at 8hr after cell synchronization, compared to 20hr. We therefore hypothesized that Bmal-1 acts as a positive
regulator of GLP-1 secretion. To test this, oral glucose tolerance tests
were performed on Bmal-1 knockout vs. wildtype mice at 6 different time points throughout the 24hr day to examine the rhythm of GLP-1 secretion in the absence of Bmal-1. Furthermore, in vitro studies were being performed involving an siRNA-mediated Bmal-1 knockdown in mGLUTag cells. Bmal-1 knockout mice showed a dysregulation in GLP-1 secretion in response to a glucose challenge, as well as a disruption in blood
glucose and insulin rhythmicity. This suggests that Bmal-1 plays an
essential role in the circadian rhythmicity of GLP-1 secretion. Transfections are currently being optimized for efficient knockdown
of Bmal-1 preceding cell synchronization. Future experiments will
elucidate a potential pathway through which Bmal-1 may act on GLP-1. Understanding the  normal rhythm of GLP-1 secretion is crucial to the development of novel therapeutic 
strategies for the treatment of T2DM.
