---
layout: post
title: "ROLE OF TRPM7 IN GLIOBLASTOMA CELLULAR FUNCTIONS"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'neuro'
subtitle: "R. Wong, E. Turlova, Z. P. Feng, J. Rutka, H. S. Sun"
tags: brain poster
---
**<sup>1,2</sup>R. Wong**, <sup>1,2</sup>E. Turlova, <sup>1</sup>Z. P. Feng, <sup>2</sup>J. Rutka, <sup>1,2</sup>H.
S. Sun

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, <sup>2</sup>Department of Surgery, University of Toronto, ON, Canada_

Glioblastoma (GBM) remains the most common and aggressive malignant
brain tumor originating in the central nervous system. Diagnosis is
lethal with a median survival of &lt;15 months. Aberrant TRPM7
expression has been linked to GBM cellular functions (i.e.
proliferation, migration and invasion). We hypothesize that inhibition
of TRPM7 suppresses GBM cellular functions. Here, our goal is to
establish TRPM7 as a potential drug target by evaluating the TRPM7
potentiator, naltriben, on GBM viability, migration, and invasiveness.
Using the human GBM cell line U87, with the whole-cell patch-clamp
technique, we first demonstrated that naltriben enhanced the endogenous
TRPM7-like current. With Fura-2 Ca<sup>2+</sup> imaging, we showed robust Ca<sup>2+</sup>
influx following naltriben application. U87 cell migration and invasion
(assessed with scratch wound assays, Matrigel invasion experiments, and
MMP-2 protein expression) were significantly enhanced with naltriben,
but not viability and proliferation (evaluated with MTT assays). With
Western immunoblots, we also assessed the protein levels of p-Akt/t-Akt,
and p-ERK1|2/t-ERK1|2. We found that, in U87, naltriben enhanced the
MAPK/ERK signaling pathway, but not the PI3k/Akt pathway. Therefore,
because potentiated TRPM7 activity contributes to the devastating
migratory and invasive characteristics of GBM, our study confirm the
involvement of TRPM7 in GBM cellular functions.
