---
layout: post
title: "THE SNARE PROTEIN, SYNTAXIN1A, PLAYS AN ESSENTIAL ROLE IN BIPHASIC
EXOCYTOSIS OF GLUCAGON-LIKE PEPTIDE-1 "
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
tags: endo oral
platform: 'endo'
subtitle: "S. E. Wheeler, Y.Nahaei, F,M Gribble, F.Reimann, H.Y.Gaisano, P.L Brubaker"
---
<sup>1</sup>**S. E. Wheeler**, <sup>1</sup>Y.Nahaei, <sup>2</sup>F,M Gribble, <sup>2</sup>F.Reimann,
<sup>1,3</sup>H.Y.Gaisano, <sup>1,3</sup>P.L Brubaker

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology and <sup>3</sup>Department of Medicine, University
of Toronto, ON, Canada; <sup>2</sup>Wellcome Trust-MRC Institute of Metabolic
Science, Metabolic Research Laboratories, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge, United Kingdom)_

The endocrine hormone glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) facilitates
metabolic homeostasis through the enhancement of glucose-dependent
insulin secretion. Exocytosis of GLP-1 by the intestinal L-cell
following nutrient ingestion is essential for the actions of degradation
inhibitors that are now widely used to treat patients with type 2
diabetes (T2D). To develop novel approaches for the treatment of T2D,
the capacity to enhance endogenous GLP-1 secretion from the L-cell is
currently being explored. We previously used intestinal
epithelial-specific inducible syntaxin1a knockout (IE-syn1a KO) mice to
show that loss of syn1a in the mouse intestinal epithelium reduces oral
glucose-stimulated GLP-1 secretion in association with deficient
glucose-stimulated insulin release and glucose intolerance. We therefore
hypothesized that loss of syn1a impairs L-cell exocytosis. Secretion
assays performed on adult mouse ileal cell (AMIC) cultures generated
from IE-syn1a KO mice demonstrated no difference in basal GLP-1
secretion as compared to control animals. However, cultures from
IE-syn1a KO mice displayed a reduction in forskolin-stimulated GLP-1
secretion, to 37% of the response found in controls (p&lt;0.001). We
thus crossed IE-syn1a KO mice with proglucagon-Venus (L-cell reporter)
mice to permit identification of the L-cell for exocytotic analysis. As
exocytosis by the primary intestinal L-cell has not previously been
described, we utilized 2-photon microscopy to visualize secretory
granule (SG) fusion events in control L-cells, and revealed that
stimulated exocytosis of GLP-1 is biphasic. However, L-cells from
intestinal-epithelial syn1a-deficient mice demonstrated a dramatic
reduction in SG fusion events, such that 1st phase exocytosis was
reduced to basal levels (p&lt;0.05) and 2nd phase was abolished
(p&lt;0.05).Our findings identify a novel mechanism regulating L-cell
exocytosis, establishing syn1a as a positive regulator of stimulated
GLP-1 secretion and, hence, insulin release following a meal.Thus, these
studies hold important implications for development of GLP-1
secretagogues to treat patients with T2D or obesity.
