---
layout: post
title: "Probiotic Lactobacillus _rhamnosus_ GR-1 supernatant regulates
LPS-induced cytokine production in human myometrial cells"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
tags: repro oral-session-2
platform: 'repro'
subtitle: "B. Kim, O. Shynlova, S. Lye"
---
__<sup>1,2</sup>_B.Kim___, <sup>1,3</sup>O.Shynlova, <sup>1,2,3</sup>S.Lye

_<sup>1</sup>Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Sinai Health System,
Toronto, Canada; <sup>2</sup>Department of Physiology; <sup>3</sup>Department of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Toronto, Canada_

Preterm labour (PTL) is a leading cause of neonatal mortality and
morbidity in developed countries. Recently, probiotic Lactobacillus
_rhamnosusGR-1_ supernatant (GR1SN) was shown to prevent
lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced PTL in pregnant mice by suppressing
pro-inflammatory cytokine expression in uterine tissues _in vivo._
Interestingly, _in vitro_, GR1SN also inhibited LPS-induced cytokine
secretion by human myometrial cells but only when administered
prophylactically. Thus, we hypothesize that _GR-1_ secreted factors
modify cellular pathways to suppress LPS-induced inflammation. We aim to
elucidate the mechanisms behind GR1SN mediated cytokine suppression and
highlight the uniqueness of L. _rhamnosus GR-1._ Five Lactobacilli
specieswere cultured in MRS broth followed by incubation in PBS to
produce PBS-based SNs. Immortalized human myometrial cells (hTERT-HM)
were pre-treated overnight with (1) vehicle, (2) SN collected from
_GR-1_ and four other non-_GR-1_ lactobacilli strains, or (3)
sub-stimulatory dose of LPS (0.1ng/mL), each followed by treatment with
PBS or LPS (100ng/mL). Secreted cytokine concentrations in conditioned
media (CM) were quantified using ELISA. Analysis of cytokine
concentrations in CM demonstrated that hTERT-HM pre-treatment with GR1SN
(1% v/v) significantly (P&lt;0.05) suppressed LPS-induced secretion of
IL-6 (47.6%), IL-8 (28.9%), and MCP-1 (47.5%), while non-_GR-1_
lactobacilli _rhamnosus GG, lactis, casei,_ and _reuteri RC-14_ SN did
not result in cytokine suppression. Pre-treatment with a sub-stimulatory
dose of LPS (0.1ng/mL) prior to high dose LPS (100ng/mL) significantly
decreased IL-6 (49%) and MCP-1 (62%) secretion (P&lt;0.05); IL-8
secretion was decreased by 41.5% (P=0.1). Our research demonstrates that
factors secreted by the probiotic Lactobacillus _rhamnosus GR-1_
uniquely suppress LPS-induced pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion in
human myometrial cells as compared to four other commensal lactobacilli
strains. We speculate that active components of GR1SN can antagonize
LPS-induced TLR activation in human myometrial cells by potentially
internalizing TLRs or by blocking its downstream pathways. Further
research will elucidate the details of GR1SN-mediated TLR
desensitization.
