---
layout: post
title: "N16 - EVIDENCE OF A SYNAPTIC VESICLE BINDING SITE IN THE MIDDLE REGION OF
THE C-TERMINAL OF PRESYNAPTIC CALCIUM CHANNELS"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'neuro'
subtitle: "C.A. Snidal, S.R. Gardezi, B.B Elliott, Q. Li, E.F. Stanley"
tags: brain poster-session-2
---

**C.A. Snidal,<sup>1</sup>** S.R. Gardezi,,<sup>1</sup> B.B Elliott,<sup>1</sup> Q. Li,<sup>1</sup> E.F. Stanley

_<sup>1</sup>*Krembil Research Institute, University Health Network, Toronto ON,
Canada_

Neurotransmitter release from synaptic vesicles (SVs) at fast
transmitting synapses is gated by calcium ions that enter through the
voltage-gated calcium channels (CaVs, primarily CaV2.2 and CaV2.1)
localized at the presynaptic membrane. There is a growing consensus that
SVs are tethered to a CaV to permit gating by single channel Ca<sup>2+<sup>
domains (Stanley, Neuron 1993, TINS 2016), but the mechanism of this
molecular link remains poorly understood. We develop an in vitro
synaptic vesicle binding assay (SV-PD) and used this to demonstrate that
intact avian CaV2.2 and also the distal third segment of its long splice
C-terminal (C3) can capture SVs (Wong et al., 2013). In a later study,
we narrowed down the SV binding site to a 50 amino acid region near the
distal tip of the C-terminal (Wong et al., 2014). A palette of
blocking peptides was next used to identify the SV binding site as an
HxxRR motif just proximal to the C terminal tip (Gardezi et al.,
2016). Recently, we observed that a fusion protein encoding the
proximal two-thirds of the CaV2.2 C-terminal (C1-C2), lacking the C3
region, could also capture SVs, suggesting a second binding site. In
this study we explore the properties of this SV binding site in both
CaV2.1 and CaV2.2 channels. Since little molecular information is
available on chick CaV2.1, we first cloned the full-length channel from
chick brain cDNA. Wild-type and mutant C terminal fusion proteins
identified an SV binding site in the middle, C2 region, of both channels
that included several putative SV binding motifs. Preliminary data
suggests that the C2 binding site has a higher affinity for SV binding
than reported previously in the CaV2.2 C3 region. This suggests that it
may play a more important role in the tethering of the SV to the channel
during transmitter release.
