---
layout: post
title: "N2 - HOW NMDA RECEPTOR DISRUPTION AFFECTS PREFRONTAL CORTICAL
NEUROPHYSIOLOGY ESSENTIAL FOR EXECUTIVE FUNCTION"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'neuro'
subtitle: "M.A. Binko, C.A. Mielnik, A.J. Ramsey, E.K. Lambe"
tags: brain poster-session-1
---
**<sup>1</sup>M.A. Binko**, <sup>2</sup>C.A. Mielnik, <sup>1,2</sup>A.J. Ramsey, <sup>1</sup>E.K. Lambe

_<sup>1</sup>*Department of Physiology, <sup>2</sup>Department of Pharmacology, University
of Toronto, ON, Canada_

The cognitive deficits of schizophrenia include impaired executive
function, attention problems and distractibility, indicative of
prefrontal cortical disruption. Converging evidence suggests that such
cognitive symptoms arise from glutamatergic abnormalities, specifically
from N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor hypofunction. Indeed, deficits
in executive function are found in transgenic mice with reduced
expression of the obligate GluN1 subunit of the NMDA receptor. Here, we
examine functional brain changes in the prefrontal cortex of GluN1
knockdown mice relative to wild-type littermate controls. In a
tripartite approach, we examined layer 5 pyramidal neurons in acute
prefrontal brain slices: (1) measuring basic electrophysiological
properties, (2) probing the integrity of synaptic and extra-synaptic
NMDA receptor responses, and (3) evoking network activity as an
integrated measure of regional brain function. Overall, these
experiments paint a striking portrait of the prefrontal cortex in the
GluN1 knockdown mice. Many aspects of cellular electrophysiology are
preserved in the face of lifelong NMDA receptor knockdown, including
near-normal NMDA currents to synaptic stimulation. Yet, responses to
extra-synaptic NMDA stimulation are obviously disrupted, and
electrically evoked network activity is absent under our experimental
conditions in the GluN1 prefrontal cortex. As such network activity is
thought to be essential for executive function, its disruption in GluN1
knockdown mice would contribute to their observed cognitive deficits.
