---
layout: post
title: "R18 - TRANSIENT AND DYNAMICALLY REGULATED TROPHOBLAST POPULATIONS IN EARLY HUMAN PLACENTA DEVELOPMENT"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
tags: repro poster-session-2
platform: 'repro'
subtitle: "F. Wong and B. Cox"
---

__<sup>1</sup>F. Wong__ and <sup>1,2</sup>B. Cox

<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, <sup>2</sup>Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada

The placenta arises from a network of trophoblast and mesoderm cells but many questions about early cellular development remain: how heterogeneous are trophoblasts? Is there a stem cell population analogous to the ones isolated from mouse models? What signals drive differentiation into various cell lineages? I aim to identify transitory populations of cells within the human placenta that organize and direct organogenesis. Candidate trophoblast progenitor populations were identified through a high throughput flow cytometry screen of 370 CD antigens in trophoblast enriched fractions isolated from either week 6 or 10 placentas. Raw data was read into R for automated and data directed gating using flowCore and OpenCyto packages. 37 dynamic subpopulations were identified between the two timepoints and 6 were selected for validation through immunohistochemistry and targeted flow cytometry. Among these, populations expressing either EpCAM (Epithelial Cell Adhesion Molecule) or CDCP1 (CUB Domain-Containing Protein 1) were investigated in detail because their decreasing expression coincided with cell differentiation into complex villus structures and they are known to mark discrete trophoblast subpopulations in the mouse. Targeted flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry analysis confirmed distinct EpCAM+ and CDCP1+ populations become restricted to discrete cellular subpopulations. The gene profiles of these subpopulations suggest EpCAM+ cells contribute to the villous cytotrophoblast lineage while CDCP1+ cells become extravillous trophoblasts (EVTs). More importantly, gene set enrichment suggests both subpopulations remain mitotically active. This is particularly interesting for the CDCP1+ population because EVTs are believed to be a terminally differentiated lineage. We are currently optimizing conditions to maintain these populations in vitro. My work provides strong evidence to support the existence of transient populations of trophoblast cells in the human placenta and contributes to our understanding of how trophoblast populations communicate and organize into a mature, multicellular tissue.
