---
layout: post
title: "MODELING ATRIAL FIBRILLATION USING HESC-DERIVED ATRIAL CARDIOMYOCYTES"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'cardio'
tags: cardio poster
subtitle: "M. Wauchop1, Z. Laksman, J. Lee, R. Aschar-Sobbi1, G. Keller, P. H. Backx"
---
**M. Wauchop<sup>1</sup>,** Z. Laksman<sup>2</sup>, J. Lee<sup>2</sup>, R. Aschar-Sobbi<sup>1</sup>, G.
Keller<sup>2</sup>, P. H. Backx<sup>1,3,4</sup>

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology and Medicine, University of Toronto, ON,
Canada; <sup>2</sup>McEwen Centre for Regenerative Medicine, University Health
Network, ON, Canada; <sup>3</sup>The Heart and Stroke/Richard Lewar Centre of
Excellence, ON, Canada; <sup>4</sup>Division of Cardiology, University Health
Network, ON, Canada_

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common supraventricular arrhythmia
encountered clinically and is associated with increased morbidity and
mortality. Current treatments for AF are largely ineffective. AF is
characterized by rapid electrical signals leading to irregular,
uncoordinated activity. Considering that the applicability of animal
models to understanding human AF is limited, we set out to develop a
model of AF using 2D monolayers of human embryonic stem cell-derived
atrial cardiomyocytes (CMs). Monolayers displayed nodal-like activation
during spontaneous firing (“sinus rhythm”(SR)) with inducible re-entrant
rotors (a critical component of AF) which were characterized by slower
conduction velocities (CVs) at the center compared to the periphery and
increased rates of spontaneous activation compared to SR. We examined
the effects of dofetilide (1μM), a class III anti-arrhythmic (HERG
channel blocker) used predominantly for preventing AF, on rotor dynamics
in our monolayers. Dofetilide was associated with action potential
prolongation at 90% repolarization (APD~90~) and with slowed firing
rates without affecting CV. Consistent with this, single CM studies
established that dofetilide (1 µM) prolonged APD~90~ as a consequence of
blockade of HERG currents. We also examined the effects of flecainide
(10 μM), a class Ic anti-arrhythmic used for AF prevention and
cardioversion, whose mechanism of action remains unknown. In line with
its use clinically, flecainide had no effect on APD but slowed firing
rates, slowed CVs exclusively at the periphery of rotors and decreased
wavefront curvature at the core. Consistent with this, single CM studies
established that flecainide (10 µM) had minimal effects on APD~90~ but
slowed upstroke velocities of APs and firing rate in association with
frequency-dependent blockade of Na<sup>+<sup> currents. This indicates that
flecainide is associated with a reduction in source currents required to
maintain rapid activation and a tight curvature. Our studies have
established sheets of atrial-like CMs with inducible rotors, which
closely mirror the characteristics or rotors in human AF and have
subsequently used these constructs to demonstrate that despite
dofetilide and flecainide having unique effects on rotor dynamics, these
changes converge to increase the temporal excitability gap and the
overall spatial and temporal electrical organization of our monolayers
which may underlie cardioversion with Class I and III antiarrhythmics.
