---
layout: post
title: "PLACENTALLY DERIVED SEROTONIN IN HIGHLY SEASONAL PREGNANT WOMEN"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'repro'
tags: repro poster
subtitle: "M. Sqapi, A. Bocking, S. Matthews and R. Levitan"
---
__M. Sqapi__<sup>1</sup>__,__ A. Bocking<sup>1, 2</sup>, S. Matthews<sup>1, 2, 3</sup> and R.
Levitan<sup>1,3,4</sup>.

_Department of <sup>1</sup>Physiology,_ _<sup>2</sup>Ob-Gyn, <sup>3</sup>Medicine, and
<sup>4</sup>Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada_

Preclinical studies have demonstrated that serotonin (5-HT) synthesized
from maternal tryptophan at the placenta is an important trophic signal
for establishing fetal brain circuitry. Furthermore, perturbations to
the placental 5-HT system have been shown to induce permanent brain
deficits in adult mouse offspring. 5-HT has a pronounced seasonal
pattern in its availability and/or metabolism with decreases during the
winter months. Moreover, people who exhibit strong seasonal changes in
mental health have greater decreases in brain extracellular 5-HT
compared to non-seasonal individuals in the fall/winter period. It is
possible this seasonal rhythm of 5-HT parallels the peripheral placental
5-HT system important for fetal neurodevelopment during pregnancy in
highly seasonal women. Our objective was to study placental 5-HT
synthesis/metabolism in highly seasonal and non-seasonal women enrolled
in the Ontario Birth Study during the fall/winter. We hypothesize that
placentas from highly seasonal pregnant women delivering during the
fall/winter period will undergo decreases in 5-HT content and this will
be associated with reduced expression of 5-HT-synthesizing enzymes.
Women with a score &gt;11 on the Seasonal Pattern Assessment
Questionnaire, administered at early gestation, were categorized as
highly seasonal. Frozen placental tissues were collected from highly
seasonal (N=7) and non-seasonal women (N=15) that delivered between
November 2015 and April 2016. The placental mRNA and protein expression
of LAT1, IDO1, TPH1, MAOA and SERT were assessed by qPCR and western
blotting. Metabolites along this pathway were measured in placenta by
mass spectrometry. No significant differences in mRNA and protein
expression of rate-limiting enzymes and metabolites in the serotonin
synthesis pathway between highly seasonal women and controls were
observed. Collectively, our pilot data suggest that placental 5-HT does
not decrease markedly with the onset and progression of
hypo-serotonergic symptoms during the fall/winter period in highly
seasonal women, though much larger sample sizes are needed.
