---
layout: post
title: "SUBARACHNOID HEMORRHAGE INCREASES MYOGENIC RESPONSIVENESS INDEPENDENT
OF REDUCED CARDIAC OUTPUT"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'cardio'
subtitle: "D.D. Dinh, J.T. Kroetsch, H. Zhang, J. D’Abbondanza, M. Sumiyoshi, K. Yagi, R.L. Macdonald, S.P. Heximer, S.S. Bolz "
tags: cardio oral
---

**<sup>1</sup>D.D. Dinh**, <sup>1</sup>J.T. Kroetsch, <sup>1</sup>H. Zhang, <sup>3</sup>J. D’Abbondanza,
<sup>4</sup>M. Sumiyoshi, <sup>5</sup>K. Yagi, <sup>3</sup>R.L. Macdonald, <sup>1,2</sup>S.P. Heximer,
<sup>1,2</sup>S.S. Bolz 

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology and <sup>2</sup>Heart & Stroke/Richard Lewar Centre
of Excellence for Cardiovascular Research,* *University of Toronto, ON,
Canada; <sup>3</sup>Keenan Research Centre at the Li Ka Shing Knowledge
Institute, St. Michael’s Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada; <sup>4</sup>Department of
Neurosurgery, Institute of Health Biosciences, University of Tokushima
Graduate School, Japan; <sup>5</sup>Department of Neurosurgery, Tokushima
University Hospital, Japan_

 Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is a devastating stroke subtype that
kills or severely debilitates the majority of those afflicted through
delayed cerebral ischemia.  SAH frequently induces a catecholamine surge
that causes immediate cardiac dysfunction and lowers cardiac output
(CO).  Paradoxically, SAH patients develop spontaneous hypertension
after 2-4 days, which worsens outcome and increases mortality.  Our
previous work in heart failure has characterized an elevation in total
peripheral resistance (TPR) that maintains acceptable blood pressure
despite a significant drop in CO.  This increase in TPR is driven by a
tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-dependent increase in cremaster muscle
artery myogenic responsiveness (MR), the ability of resistance arteries
to adapt resistance to local transmural pressure.  Thus, in SAH, we
hypothesize that reduced CO induces an increase in TPR through a
TNF-dependent increase in MR.  We employed a murine model of SAH where
donor blood is injected into the chiasmatic cistern.  At 2 days
post-induction, SAH mice have reduced CO by 30% and increased TPR by 40%
(n=7-8).  In SAH mice, protecting the heart from catecholamines using
the β~1~-blocker bisoprolol normalizes CO.  However, normalizing CO with
bisoprolol does not alleviate the augmented MR in SAH mice (n=7-13).  We
validated this finding using a separate isoproterenol-based model of
cardiac injury and found that the isoproterenol-induced reduction in CO
associates with a paradoxical decrease in MR (n=8).  We conclude that
changes in cardiac output do not drive compensatory changes in MR.  In
mice lacking smooth muscle cell TNF, the increase in cremaster muscle
artery MR due to SAH is completely blocked (n=6-7).  Thus, we speculate
that in SAH, catecholamines act directly on the smooth muscle cells of
peripheral microvessels to increase MR through a mechanism involving
smooth muscle cell-TNF. 
