---
layout: post
title: "R2 - KIDNEY REGENERATION USING INDUCED PLURIPOTENT STEM CELLS AND
EXTRACELLULAR MATRIX SCAFFOLDS"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'repro'
tags: repro poster-session-2
subtitle: ".B. Bongolan, T. Chow, J. Whiteley, A. Mohamed, M. Kaths, M. Hamar, M. Selzner, I. M. Rogers"
---
__<sup>1,2</sup>T.B. Bongolan__, <sup>1,2</sup>T. Chow, <sup>2</sup>J. Whiteley, <sup>1,2</sup>A. Mohamed,
<sup>3</sup>M. Kaths, <sup>3</sup>M. Hamar, <sup>3</sup>M. Selzner, <sup>1,2,4</sup>I. M. Rogers

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada;
<sup>2</sup>Women’s and Infant’s Health, Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute,
Mount Sinai Hospital, ON, Canada; <sup>3</sup>Toronto General Hospital Research
Institute, ON, Canada; <sup>4</sup>Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Mount
Sinai Hospital and the University of Toronto, ON, Canada_

Kidney disease affects nearly 3 million people in Canada; however,
treatment options remain limited to dialysis and transplantation.
Because of the urgent need for novel therapeutics, the Rogers lab is
interested in using regenerative medicine techniques to explore
mechanisms of kidney regeneration. Our first aim is to use human induced
pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) to differentiate into renal progenitor
cells. Differentiation traditionally uses exogenous growth factors to
activate signalling pathways involved during embryonic development of
the kidney, such as BMPs and Activins, which are known to produce
inconsistent and inefficient differentiation of stem cells in vitro. We
hypothesize that small molecules can replace growth factors during
differentiation, while generating more consistent and efficient results.
We have found that the small molecule CHIR99021, a GSK3 inhibitor, can
be used in the absence of Activin A to generate mesodermal cells from
iPSCs. We also found that small molecule substitutions for BMP4, such as
FK506 and 4’-hydroxychalcone, can be used for mesoderm induction.
Further differentiation will include continuing differentiation into
intermediate mesodermal and metanephric mesenchymal cells, which gives
rise to the nephrons of the kidney. Our second aim is to use
decellularized extracellular matrix sections from a porcine kidney as a
3D culture system for our renal progenitor cells. We are currently
exploring various detergents for both complete decellularization and
preservation of the extracellular matrix. We have found that mild
detergents such as CHAPS and Triton X-100 can be used for partial
decellularization without disruption of the extracellular matrix.
Recellularization of these extracellular matrix scaffolds will provide
insight into how the extracellular matrix may be used to direct
migration, proliferation, and further differentiation of iPSC-derived
renal progenitor cells. This research will potentially lead to
bioengineering whole kidneys for transplantation into humans.
