---
layout: post
title: "OXYGEN-DEPENDENT JMJD6 REGULATION OF FIBRONECTIN SYNTHESIS AND
ASSEMBLY IN THE HUMAN PLACENTA"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'repro'
tags: repro poster
subtitle: "S Alahari and I Caniggia"
---
__S Alahari<sup>1,2\ <sup>__ and I Caniggia<sup>1,2,3</sup>

_Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute<sup>1</sup>, Mount Sinai Hospital;
Departments of Physiology<sup>2</sup>, and Obstetrics and Gynaecology<sup>3</sup>, Faculty
of Medicine, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada._

Extracellular matrix (ECM) assembly during human placentation is a
multi-step process involving the coordinated actions of factors that
guide cytotrophoblast differentiation towards a migratory/invasive
phenotype typical of extravillous trophoblasts. These events are
compromised in preeclampsia (PE), a pathology typified by shallow
trophoblast invasion and impaired remodelling of maternal spiral
arteries. Emerging evidence highlights the Jumonji C family of
oxygen-dependent histone demethylases as regulators of the epigenetic
code, including several genes mediating epithelial to mesenchymal
transitions (EMTs). Hence, we sought to investigate the importance of
Jumonji C Domain Containing Protein 6 (JMJD6) in mediating ECM, in
particular fibronectin (FN) assembly in the human placenta. Placental
mesenchymal cells (pMSCs) were isolated from first trimester,
preeclamptic (n=17), pre-term (PTC, n=14) and term (TC, n=15)
pregnancies. Overexpression (OE) of JMJD6 in pMSCs in normoxia led to a
reduction in FN levels. Immunofluorescence revealed that besides the
typical extracellular FN distribution, JMJD6 OE also downregulated
intracellular FN, indicating its impact on FN synthesis. OE of the
catalytically inactive JmjC mutant (ΔJMJD6) in pMSCs abolished the
negative regulatory effect of JMJD6 on FN expression and prevented its
dimerization, an event that is required for proper FN deposition.
Alternatively, immunofluorescence analysis of pMSCs upon _JMJD6_ RNAi
resulted in intracellular accumulation of FN and compromised fibril
formation. Consistent with our observation of impaired JMJD6 histone
demethylase _activity_ in PE, FN was elevated in PE tissue. Examination
of the signalling pathway involved in FN matrix formation, revealed
down-regulation of activated β1 integrin and phosphorylated focal
adhesion kinase (pFAK<sup>Y397</sup>), upon JMJD6 OE at 8% O~2~ but not at 3%
O~2~. The present study demonstrates that JMJD6 controls the synthesis,
expression and deposition of FN in the human placenta. We propose that
the shallow trophoblast invasion in PE is in part due to altered JMJD6
activity, resulting in aberrant FN deposition.
