---
layout: post
title: "CO-CULTURE OF ENDOTHEIAL PROGENITOR CELLS WITH FIRST TRIMESTER
UMBILICAL CORD PERIVASCULAR CELLS ENHANCES EXPRESSION OF KEY FACTORS FOR
ANGIOGENESIS"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
tags: cardio poster
platform: 'cardio'
subtitle: "F. Iqbal, B. Wyse, Y. Gratch, A.G. Fisher, P. Szaraz, C.L. Librach "
---
**<sup>1,4</sup>F. Iqbal**, <sup>1</sup>B. Wyse, Y. <sup>1</sup>Gratch<sup>1</sup>, <sup>1</sup>A.G. Fisher, <sup>1,4</sup>P.
Szaraz, <sup>1,2,3,4,5</sup>C.l. Librach  

_<sup>1</sup> Create Fertility Centre, Toronto, ON, Canada  
<sup>2</sup> Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Toronto,
Toronto, ON Canada  
<sup>3</sup>
Institute of Medical Sciences, University of Toronto, Toronto,
ON,Canada  
<sup>4</sup> Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON,Canada  
<sup>5</sup> Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Women’s College Hospital,
Toronto, ON, Canada  
<sup>6</sup> Toronto General Research Institute (TGRI), University Health Network
(UHN), Toronto, ON, Canada_

FTM HUCPVCs are a young source of immunoprivileged mesenchymal stromal
cells (MSCs) that demonstrate superior angiogenic potential, when
compared older MSCs.  We aimed to assess the paracrine angiogenic
properties of FTM HUCPVCs in a vascular microenvironment by profiling
expression of key angiogenic factors using two in vitro angiogenesis
assays: the rat aortic ring assay (ARA) and the endothelial progenitor
cell (EPC) tube formation assay. For both assays, fluorophore-labelled
FTM HUCPVCs were co-cultured with developing endothelial cells/networks
on Matrigel™, conditioned media was collected and analyzed with a human
specific angiogenesis proteome profiler array (RnD). Quantification of
endothelial networks was performed using ImageJ™. Cells were extracted
and processed for qPCR (Sabiosciences) (Ct&lt;22). *Aortic ring
co-cultures*: When compared to control FTM HUCPVC culture media, media
from ARA co-cultures had increased levels (&gt;1.5x) of growth and
angiogenic factors and ECM degradation proteins. qPCR analysis showed
high expression levels of VEGF/receptor, TIMPs, TGFB1, SERPINs, in FTM
HUCPVC in co-cultures. Quantification of FTM HUCPVCs ARA co-cultures
demonstrated significant increment in network growth (_p_&lt;0.01) when
compared to controls. * EPC co-cultures*: FTM HUCPVC/EPC co-cultures
demonstrated increased (&gt;1.5x) secretion of human EGF, HGF, FGF2
compared to FTM HUCPVC alone. Interestingly, ECM degradation inhibitors
up-regulated in ARAs showed lower levels in EPC co-cultures. qPCR on EPC
co-cultures showed high levels of human angiopoietin, FGF1, HGF, IGF2,
VEGF/receptor. Quantification of tubular networks in co-cultures
demonstrated higher network segment length (_p_&lt;0.01) when compared
to EPCs or FTM HUCPVCs alone.  Comparing angiogenic proteins/genes in
the angiogenesis assays showed that FTM HUCPVC/EPC co-cultures express
several factors implicated in angiogenesis induction, while FTM HUCPVCs
in ARA co-cultures secrete factors involved in maintenance of vascular
structures, which may correlate with the maturity of endothelial cell
population.  Our findings support a novel paradigm that
co-administration of an MSC with an EPC may be superior for regenerative
therapy than either alone.  
