---
layout: post
title: "R5 - OOCYTE AND EARLY EMBRYO HEALTH IS DIMINISHED WITH LOSS OF CELL CYCLE
REGULATOR NEK2"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'repro'
tags: repro poster-session-1
subtitle: "K. Kim, R. Nazari, H. Li, A. Jurisicova"
---
__<sup>1,2</sup>K. Kim,__ <sup>2</sup>R. Nazari, <sup>2</sup>H. Li, <sup>1,2,3</sup>A. Jurisicova

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada;
<sup>2</sup>Lunenfeld Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, ON,
Canada; <sup>3</sup>Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of
Toronto, ON, Canada_

Nek2, a member of Never In Mitosis kinase (Nek) family of
serine/threonine kinases, contributes to cell division processes such as
spindle assembly and kinetochore attachment. Although previous studies
have focused on its oncogenic roles, Nek2 may also be an important
contributor to germline health. We have found that in aged female mice,
a model of poor oocyte quality, Nek2 expression is decreased. We
therefore sought to explore the contribution of Nek2 to murine
reproductive health. Using Cas-CRISPR, 2 bp were inserted into the Nek2
gene, to generate truncated Nek2 transcript with a premature stop codon.
We confirmed the knockdown of Nek2 transcript via qPCR in oocytes. In
addition, testes from the Nek2 mutants showed decrease in Nek2 protein.
Ovulation rates of the young Nek2 KO females (4-5 weeks old) were
similar to rates from wildtype females, although rates did decrease with
age. Follicle counts revealed decreased reserve, which became more
obvious with aging. Additionally, embryos from Nek2 KO females had
decreased developmental potential and KO females consistently
experienced more fetal resorptions. As Nek2 is important in cell
division, we hypothesized that meiotic events may be perturbed in
oocytes from Nek2 KO mice. However, the chromosomal plate and spindle
morphology in the ovulated MII oocytes of Nek2 KO mice were normal. We
also assessed mitochondrial health of ovulated oocytes as Nek2 has been
recently shown to be able to regulate splicing of pyruvate kinase.
However, there were no differences in mitochondrial pool or
mitochondrial ROS levels. We aim to further dissect the role of Nek2 in
the regulation of meiosis during oogenesis.
