---
layout: post
title: "VEPH1 DECREASES TSC1 PROTEIN LEVELS TO POTENTIALLY PROMOTE MTOR
SIGNALLING"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'repro'
tags: repro poster
subtitle: "S. Yeo, P. Shathasivam, A. Kollara, T.J. Brown"
---
**<sup>1,2,3</sup>S. Yeo,** <sup>2,3</sup>P. Shathasivam, <sup>2,3</sup>A. Kollara, <sup>1,2,3</sup>T.J. Brown

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada._  
_<sup>2</sup>Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute at Mount Sinai Hospital, ON,
Canada._  
_<sup>3</sup>Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Toronto, ON,
Canada._

mTORC1 is a key regulator of protein synthesis and cell growth, and its
dysfunction has been implicated in many cancers. mTORC1 activity is
inhibited by TSC2, which is stabilized by its binding to TSC1. Thus,
TSC1 is an important regulator of TSC2 and thereby mTORC1. The
Drosophila ortholog of VEPH1 has been reported to bind TSC1 and increase
TOR activity. In this study, we investigate the relationship between
VEPH1 and TSC1 and its impact on mTORC1 activity. Ovarian SKOV3 and
hepatocellular HEPG2 cancer cells lacking endogenous VEPH1, were stably
transfected with an empty or a flag-tagged VEPH1 expression vector.
VEPH1 expression decreased TSC1 protein levels in SKOV3 and HEPG2 cells
independently of growth factor stimulation, suggesting an effect of
VEPH1 on downstream effectors of mTORC1. This was also observed in
xenograft tumours of SKOV3 cells stably expressing VEPH1 or an empty
vector. Real-time qPCR will be conducted to examine the effect of VEPH1
on TSC1 mRNA. Co-immunoprecipitation assays will be performed to examine
VEPH1-TSC1 interaction. Treatment with proteasome and translation
inhibitors will be used to examine if the impact of VEPH1 on TSC1
expression is due to regulation of its degradation or translation.
Interestingly, decreased TSC1 did not result in a corresponding decrease
in TSC2 or increase in mTORC1 activity. This may be the result of
activating mutations in PIK3CA and nRAS in SKOV3 and HEPG2 cells,
respectively. These mutations all lead to TSC2 phosphorylation, which
prevents its association with TSC1; effectively removing regulation of
TSC1 on mTORC1. We are currently examining the impact of VEPH1 in the
presence of inhibitors to these pathways. TSC1 also interacts with ALK5
to increase its activity. Since we previously found VEPH1 interacts with
ALK5 to inhibit TGFβ signaling, we will also examine the impact of
VEPH1-mediated decrease of TSC1 on TGFβ signaling.
