---
layout: post
title: "N12 - ADDRESSING THE STABILITY-PLASTICITY DILEMMA: THE ROLE OF PERINEURONAL
NETS IN LEARNING AND MEMORY"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'neuro'
subtitle: "M. Nath, A.I. Ramsaran, P.W. Frankland"
tags: brain poster-session-1
---
<sup>1,3</sup>M. Nath, <sup>2,3</sup>A.I. Ramsaran, <sup>1,2,3</sup>P.W. Frankland

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada;
<sup>2</sup>Department of Psychology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada;
<sup>3</sup>Program in Neurosciences and Mental Health, The Hospital for Sick
Children, Toronto, ON, Canada_

Our ability to learn is constrained by two factors: plasticity and
stability. Brain plasticity is required to integrate new information;
stability is required to prevent forgetting of previously acquired
information. This balance between plasticity and stability must be
regulated in order to optimize our learning capacity. A possible key
regulator of this stability-plasticity balance includes perineuronal
nets (PNNs). PNNs are specialized extracellular matrix structures
surrounding the soma and proximal dendrites of neurons. PNNs develop at
the closure of early developmental critical periods, and the disruption
of PNNs increases plasticity. We wanted to investigate the effects of
disrupting PNNs in different brain regions on learning and memory. To do
this, we infused chondroitinase ABC (chABC), which degrades PNNs, or a
control enzyme penicillinase (PEN), which lacks an endogenous substrate,
into specific brain regions of adult mice. Disrupting PNNs in the
hippocampal-CA1 region 3-days prior to contextual fear training or
1-hour post-training impairs contextual fear memory expression. In
contrast, disrupting PNNs 2-weeks pre-training or 3-days post-training
has no significant effect on fear memory expression. Accordingly,
disrupting PNNs in the hippocampal-CA1 region, anterior cingulate
cortex, or retrosplenial cortex 1-month post water-maze training has no
effect on spatial memory expression. Combined, these results suggest
that PNNs play an important role in the encoding of memories, but that
disruption of PNNs alone is insufficient to destabilize consolidated
memories. Addressing the stability: plasticity dilemma is key to
deciphering how we learn.
