---
layout: post
title: "R14 - PROGESTERONE DIFFERENTIALLY REGULATES CX43 GAP JUNCTION FORMATION
THROUGH ITS RECEPTORS PRA AND PRB IN BREAST CANCER CELLS"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'repro'
tags: repro poster-session-2
subtitle: "JD Rondeau, L Nadeem, SJ Lye"
---
<sup>1,2</sup>__J.D. Rondeau__, <sup>2</sup>L. Nadeem, <sup>1,2,3</sup>S.J. Lye

_<sup>1</sup>Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON,
Canada;_

_<sup>2</sup>LTRI at Sinai Health System, Toronto, ON, Canada; _

_<sup>3</sup>Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Toronto,
Toronto, ON, Canada_

Progesterone (P4) imparts distinct effects on mammary cell proliferation
via its receptors PRA and PRB. We have recently found that the gap
junction protein Connexin43 (Cx43) is differentially regulated by P4 via
PRA/B in human myometrium. P4/PRA promotes expression of the Cx43
isoform 20K (Cx43-20K), which chaperones Cx43 to the plasma membrane
(PM) and enhances gap junction intercellular connectivity (GJIC) while
P4/PRB inhibits Cx43-20K expression and GJIC. Cx43-mediated GJIC results
in tumor suppression via the spread of pro-apoptotic signals to adjacent
cells. We hypothesized that in PR+ve breast cancer (BC), P4/PRA and
P4/PRB differentially regulate GJIC formation and tumorigenesis. We used
BC cell lines MDA-MB-231(PR–ve) and MFM223 (PRB+ve) to test our
hypothesis. To examine intracellular trafficking of Cx43, we
overexpressed GFP-tagged Cx43 and PRA/PRB in MDA-MB-231 cells. We found
that PRA expressing cells promote while PRB expressing cells inhibit
Cx43 forward trafficking to the PM. We then overexpressed a GFP-tagged
Cx43 mutant vector (unable to express Cx43-20K) along with PRA/PRB and
found that PRA cells failed to traffic Cx43 to the PM in the absence of
Cx43-20K. Co-expression of exogenous Cx43-20K restored Cx43 trafficking
in PRB and in Cx43 mutant-expressing PRA cells. We replicated our
experiments in MFM223 cell line and found similar outcomes. Our data
suggest that in endocrine responsive tumors, PR isoform profiling may be
critical to the prognostic assessment of breast tumors. P4 treatment in
PRA+ve BC cells may prove beneficial due to its restorative action on
Cx43 trafficking, thereby enhancing its GJIC-mediated tumor suppressive
properties.
