---
layout: post
title: "THE ROLE OF NEUROLIGIN 2 AND INHIBITORY TRANSMISSION IN THE FUNCTION
OF THALAMIC CIRCUITRY DURING EPILEPSY"
header-img: "img/home-bg.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: 'neuro'
subtitle: "F Cao, J Liu, Z Jia"
tags: brain poster
---
**F Cao**<sup>1,2</sup>, J Liu<sup>1,2</sup>, Z Jia<sup>1,2</sup>

_Department of Physiology<sup>1</sup>, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Neuroscience & Mental Health<sup>2</sup>, The Hospital
of Sick Children, Ontario, Canada)_

Epilepsy is one of the most common neurological disorders. At the
cellular level, epileptic seizures are caused by abnormal, excessive or
synchronous neuronal electrical activity in the brain. However, the
exact mechanisms of epilepsy remain largely unknown. Neuroligin 2 is a
postsynaptic cell adhesion protein, which is exclusively located at
inhibitory synapses and serves a role in regulating the balance between
brain excitation and inhibition. Importantly, the imbalance between
excitation and inhibition tends to cause the disruption of neuronal
activities, which may lead to epileptic seizures. By using
electroencephalogram and electrophysiological recordings, we found that
mice lacking Neuroligin 2 display abnormal seizure-like brain activities
and an impaired inhibitory neuronal function in an epilepsy-related
thalamic circuitry. Importantly, the abnormal brain activity can be
rescued by the administration of a drug directed at enhancing the
inhibitory synaptic transmission. These results suggest that Neuroligin
2 regulates normal brain function through modulating inhibition. Our
findings provide crucial insight into the mechanisms underlying epilepsy
generation and to facilitate the understanding and treatment of related
brain disorders.
