---
layout: post
title: "N4 - DECIPHERING THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF ORIENS-LACUNOSUM/MOLECULARE (OLM)
CELLS DURING LOCAL FIELD POTENTIAL (LFP) THETA RHTYHTMS IN CA1 HIPPOCAMPUS"
header-img: "img/banner.png"
category: abstracts
platform: 'neuro'
subtitle: "A. Pierri Chatzikalymniou, F. K. Skinner"
tags: brain poster-session-2
---
**A. Pierri Chatzikalymniou**<sup>1,2</sup>, F. K. Skinner<sup>1,3,2</sup>

_Krembil Research Institute<sup>1</sup>, University Health Network, Toronto ON,
CA;
Department of Physiology<sup>2</sup>, University of Toronto, Toronto ON, CA;
Department of Medicine (Neurology)<sup>3</sup>, University of Toronto, Toronto
ON, CA;_

In the hippocampus, one of the most prevalent LFP rhythms is the 3-12 Hz
“theta” oscillation. Recent work has shown that theta rhythms emerge in
the CA1 region of an intact *in vitro* hippocampus preparation due to
local interactions between hippocampal interneurons and pyramidal (PYR)
cells. Oriens-lacunosum/moleculare (OLM) cells are a major class of
GABAergic interneurons in the hippocampus. In addition to inhibiting
distal dendrites of PYR cells in stratum LM, OLM cells disinhibit PYR
cells in stratum radiatum, an inner to middle layer, by inhibiting
interneurons that target PYR cells in that region. Our goal is to
examine the contributions of OLM cells to local ongoing LFP theta
rhythms using computational modeling. We use network models of OLM
cells, bistratified cells (BiCs), and basket/axo-axonic cells (BC/AACs)
that target PYR cells in specific layers, and assess the role of OLM
cells as their interactions with BiCs and the PYR cell vary. We find
that the LFP is mostly affected by changes in the synaptic conductance
from OLM cells to BiCs rather than synaptic conductance changes from
BiCs to OLM cells. This observation suggests that progressive inhibition
of OLM cells and thus progressive decrease of their synaptic inputs onto
the PYR cell does not strongly alter the LFP whereas progressive
inhibition of BiCs does. Decomposition of the LFP reveals that
fluctuations in power occur due to BiC and BC/AAC and not OLM cell
synaptic inputs onto the PYR. Furthermore, changes in synaptic weights
from OLM cells to the PYR cell do not produce substantial changes in the
LFP. Since inhibitory cell populations and abnormalities in theta
rhythms are associated with pathologies, it is important to understand
cellular contributions to LFP theta rhythm modulations.
