---
layout: post
title: "The requirement of B-cells for blood pressure homeostasis"
header-img: "img/banner.jpg"
category: abstracts
platform: "cardio"
subtitle: "**Luke S Dingwell**, Eric A Shikatani, Rickvinder Besla, Andrew S Levy, Danny Dinh, Abdul Momen, Hangjun Zhang, Talat Afroze, Michelle B Chen, Nicholas Maksimowski, Craig A Simmons, Filio Billia, Jennifer L Gommerman, Rohan John, Scott  Heximer, James Scholey, Steffen-Sebastian Bolz, Clinton Robbins, Mansoor Husain"
tags: poster cardio
session_id: C5
visible: true
---
**<sup>1-2</sup>Luke S Dingwell**, <sup>1,3</sup>Eric A Shikatani, <sup>3</sup>Rickvinder Besla, <sup>4</sup>Andrew S Levy, <sup>4</sup>Danny Dinh, <sup>1</sup>Abdul Momen, <sup>4</sup>Hangjun Zhang, <sup>1</sup>Talat Afroze, <sup>5</sup>Michelle B Chen, <sup>4</sup>Nicholas Maksimowski, <sup>5</sup>Craig A Simmons, <sup>1</sup>Filio Billia, <sup>6</sup>Jennifer L Gommerman, <sup>3</sup>Rohan John, <sup>4</sup>Scott  Heximer, <sup>4</sup>James Scholey, <sup>4</sup>Steffen-Sebastian Bolz, <sup>3,6</sup>Clinton Robbins, <sup>1-4,7\*</sup>Mansoor Husain

__1 Ted Rogers Centre for Heart Research; Departments of 2 Institute of Medical Science, 3 Laboratory Medicine & Pathobiology, 4 Physiology, 5 Mechanical & Industrial Engineering, 6 Immunology, and 7 Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada__

The proto-oncogene and nuclear transcription factor c-myb regulates differentiation of hematological and vascular smooth muscle cells; however, the role of c-Myb in integrated cardiovascular physiology is unknown.  Mice homozygous for a hypomorphic c-myb allele (c-mybh/h) conferring reduced c-Myb activity have lower systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and reduced susceptibility to DOCA-salt experimental hypertension compared to wild-type (WT) mice.  Although cardiac structure and function, and resistance artery function were normal, c-mybh/h mice have increased 24-h urine output, creatinine clearance, and sodium excretion vs. WT, and have reduced peripheral blood and kidney B220+ B-cells.  Reconstitution of WT mice with c-mybh/h bone marrow transplant (BMT) (h/h>WT) decreased blood pressure of WT recipients to h/h levels, and increased 24-h urine output compared to control, WT>WT mice.  Conversely, WT>h/h mice had blood pressure similar to WT mice.  Chimeric BMT from i) c-mybh/h mice and ii) mice lacking B-cells (JHT) into WT mice (h/h:JHT>WT) lowered BP and increased 24-h urine output compared to control, WT:JHT>WT mice.  B-cell deleted JHT mice were also found to manifest lower systolic and diastolic blood pressure and increased 24-h urine output compared to WT mice.  qRT-PCR of kidney medulla found reduced vasopressin receptor 2 expression in c-mybh/h mice, implicating B-cells in the anti-diuretic hormone-vasopressin receptor 2 axis.  Together, these data suggest that vasopressin receptor 2 deficiency in renal medulla results in abnormal salt- and water-handling and consequently, lower blood pressure in c-mybh/h mice.  BMT and JHT experiments reveal the requirement of B-cells for blood pressure and renal homeostasis.